::: {.navheader}
Chapter 1. Introduction
:::

[Prev](index.html) 

 

 [Next](ch01s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.chapter lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#ch_introduction}Chapter 1. Introduction {#chapter-1.-introduction .title}
-------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[1.1. Synopsis of SMOKE](ch01.html#d0e62)]{.section}

[[1.2. SMOKE Users](ch01s02.html)]{.section}

[[1.3. How to Use this Manual](ch01s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#d0e62}1.1. Synopsis of SMOKE {#synopsis-of-smoke .title style="clear: both"}
--------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

The environmental community has developed advanced numerical air quality
models (AQMs) to understand the interactions among meteorology,
emissions (both manmade and biogenic), and pollutant chemistry and
dynamics. Emissions data from emissions models and regulatory
inventories are one of the most important inputs for these air quality
models. Scientists use air quality modeling for a number of purposes:
for state and federal implementation plan development, for research on
improved modeling methods, and most recently for air quality
forecasting. In all of these cases, the trend has been to model larger
regions, at a finer grid resolution, with more emissions sources, and
for more purposes (e.g., ozone, particulates, toxics). These needs
require a computationally efficient, user-friendly, and flexible
emissions data processing system.

The MCNC Environmental Modeling Center (EMC) created the Sparse Matrix
Operator Kernel Emissions (SMOKE) Modeling System to allow emissions
data processing methods to integrate high-performance-computing (HPC)
sparse-matrix algorithms. The SMOKE system is a significant addition to
the available resources for decision-making about emissions controls for
both urban and regional applications. It provides a mechanism for
preparing specialized inputs for air quality modeling research, and it
makes air quality forecasting possible. The SMOKE system continues to
develop and improve at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill's
Institute for the Environment (IE).

The SMOKE prototype, available since 1996, was an effective tool for
emissions processing in a number of regional air quality modeling
applications. In 1998 and 1999, SMOKE was redesigned and improved with
the support of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The
primary purposes of the first SMOKE redesign were support of (1)
emissions processing with user-selected chemical mechanisms (described
in more detail in [Section 2.11, "Chemical speciation
processing"](ch02s11.html "2.11. Chemical speciation processing")) and
(2) emissions processing for reactivity assessments (described in
[Section 2.14.3, "Creating the reactivity control
matrix"](ch02s14s03.html "2.14.3. Creating the reactivity control matrix")).
In 2002, SMOKE was enhanced to support driving the MOBILE6 model used to
create on-road mobile emission factors and to support on-road and
nonroad mobile toxics inventories, resulting in SMOKE v1.5. In 2003,
SMOKE v2.0 was created to include all toxic inventories, including point
and nonpoint (stationary sources reported at the county level) sources.
SMOKE v2.1, released in 2004, included updated versions of the BEIS3 and
MOBILE6.2 models, the ability to use humidity data when processing
on-road mobile sources with MOBILE6, and support for polar stereographic
output grids. In 2009, SMOKE v2.6 enhanced the processing of fire data,
streamlined the processing for CAMx and UAM models, and added a new
approach to processing CEM data. Version 2.7, SMOKE was enhanced to
support processing the MOVES (MOter Vehicle Emission Simulator) emission
rates output through the SMOKE system to model on-roadway and
off-network mobile sources. As of version 4.0 SMOKE is enhanced to
support hemispheric modeling by enabling the processing of global
gridded emission inventories, such as EDGAR, for input to
chemistry-tranport models.

SMOKE can process criteria gaseous pollutants such as carbon monoxide
(CO), nitrogen oxides (NO~x~), volatile organic compounds (VOC), ammonia
(NH~3~), sulfur dioxide (SO~2~); particulate matter (PM) pollutants such
as PM 2.5 microns or less (PM~2.5~) and PM less than 10 microns
(PM~10~); as well as a large array of toxic pollutants, such as mercury,
cadmium, benzene, and formaldehyde. In fact, SMOKE has no limitation
regarding the number or types of pollutants it can process.

The purpose of SMOKE (or any emissions processor) is to convert the
resolution of the emission inventory data to the resolution needed by an
air quality model. Emission inventories are typically available with an
annual-total emissions value for each emissions source, or perhaps with
an average-day emissions value. The AQMs, however, typically require
emissions data on an hourly basis, for each model grid cell (and perhaps
model layer), and for each model species. (Refer to [Appendix A.
Glossary](go01.html "Appendix A. Glossary") for definitions of these
terms.) Consequently, emissions processing involves transforming an
emission inventory through temporal allocation, chemical speciation, and
spatial allocation, to achieve the input requirements of the AQM.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------
  [Prev](index.html)                                  [Next](ch01s02.html)
  SMOKE v4.7 User's Manual     [Home](index.html)         1.2. SMOKE Users
  --------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------
:::
::: {.navheader}
1.2. SMOKE Users
:::

[Prev](ch01.html) 

Chapter 1. Introduction

 [Next](ch01s03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#d0e96}1.2. SMOKE Users {#smoke-users .title style="clear: both"}
--------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

Possible SMOKE users are individuals who need to prepare emission input
files for one of the following air quality models:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Community Multiscale Air Quality (CMAQ) modeling system
-   Comprehensive Air Quality Model, with Extensions (CAM~X~)
-   Urban Airshed Model, version 4 (UAM-IV)
-   Urban Airshed Model, Variable grid (UAM-V)
:::

We anticipate that the typical SMOKE user will have some combination of
the following experience and needs:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Those knowledgeable about emission inventories.
2.  Those with UNIX experience (including Linux).
3.  Those with little or no emissions modeling background.
4.  Those who are somewhat familiar with grid-based air quality models
    and their emissions input needs.
5.  Persons with emission inventories in hand who need to process the
    data for input to an AQM.
6.  EPA personnel who want to create emission inputs for research or
    regulatory efforts with AQMs.
7.  State environmental personnel who want to create emission inputs to
    AQMs for regulatory efforts, including State Implementation Plans
    (SIPs).
8.  Those wishing to generate an on-road mobile inventory using MOVES
    and either the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) modeling
    system or the Pennsylvania State University/National Center for
    Atmospheric Research fifth-generation Mesoscale Model (MM5) gridded,
    hourly meteorology data.
:::

SMOKE users who have previous UNIX experience can expect to run SMOKE
more easily than users who must learn both UNIX and SMOKE. This is
because the standard way to run SMOKE is from UNIX scripts.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------
  [Prev](ch01.html)            [Up](ch01.html)              [Next](ch01s03.html)
  Chapter 1. Introduction     [Home](index.html)     1.3. How to Use this Manual
  -------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------
:::
::: {.navheader}
1.3. How to Use this Manual
:::

[Prev](ch01s02.html) 

Chapter 1. Introduction

 [Next](ch02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#d0e383}1.3. How to Use this Manual {#how-to-use-this-manual .title style="clear: both"}
--------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

This document is the most complete reference available on SMOKE. It is
available both as a set of HTML pages and PDF document (including page
numbers) from the [CMAS center](http://www.cmascenter.org).

Given below are typical activities for which users need this manual, and
the resources available to meet those needs.

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**Install SMOKE:**]{.bold} Installation instructions are available
    in [Chapter 12, *Downloading, Installing, and Compiling
    SMOKE*](ch12.html "Chapter 12. Downloading, Installing, and Compiling SMOKE").
    To register and download SMOKE, visit the [CMAS Model
    Clearinghouse](http://www.cmascenter.org/html/models.html).

-   [**Compile SMOKE:**]{.bold} [Section 12.4, "Compiling SMOKE for
    UNIX"](ch12s04.html "12.4. Compiling SMOKE for UNIX") provides
    instructions for compiling SMOKE for platforms other than the
    default ones supported by the CMAS Center.

-   [**Run SMOKE test case:**]{.bold} [Section 4.3, "Running the SMOKE
    test case"](ch04s03.html "4.3. Running the SMOKE test case")
    provides instructions for running the test case provided with SMOKE.

-   [**Set up and run SMOKE for new inventory, grid, episode,
    etc.:**]{.bold} [Section 4.4, "How to use
    SMOKE"](ch04s04.html "4.4. How to use SMOKE") includes instructions
    on how users can set up SMOKE for their own cases. The [SMOKE
    classroom training](http://www.cmascenter.org/training.cfm)
    available through the CMAS Center covers these topics in more
    detail.

-   [**Prepare input files:**]{.bold} Most SMOKE input files are ASCII
    files that can be prepared using database programs or other tools.
    Descriptions of all input file formats are found in [Chapter 8,
    *SMOKE Input Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files").
    Users may obtain input data files (perhaps not in SMOKE input
    format) from EPA web sites, such as the Clearinghouse for
    Inventories and Emission Factors (CHIEF) [web
    site](http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/emch/).

-   [**Decide how to assign settings in run scripts:**]{.bold} In
    [Chapter 4, *How to Use
    SMOKE*](ch04.html "Chapter 4. How to Use SMOKE"), we cover the SMOKE
    scripts and how to use them. The settings are assigned via
    environment variables, which are explained in general terms in
    [Section 2.2, "Assigns file and environment
    variables"](ch02s02.html "2.2. Assigns file and environment variables").
    Any settings used to control the scripts (not the programs) are
    described in [Section 4.2.4, "Script
    settings"](ch04s02s04.html "4.2.4. Script settings"). The settings
    that are evaluated by SMOKE programs and directly affect their
    behavior are further explained in [Chapter 5, *SMOKE Utility
    Tools*](ch05.html "Chapter 5. SMOKE Utility Tools"), [Chapter 6,
    *SMOKE Core Programs*](ch06.html "Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs"),
    and [Chapter 7, *SMOKE Quality
    Assurance*](ch07.html "Chapter 7. SMOKE Quality Assurance").

-   [**Check that SMOKE has run properly:**]{.bold} [Section 7.5,
    "Quality Assurance
    Methods"](ch07s05.html "7.5. Quality Assurance Methods") includes a
    list of steps regarding how to verify that SMOKE has run properly.
    This chapter also includes instructions on running the quality
    assurance (QA) features of SMOKE and documentation on the reporting
    control file ([Section 7.3, "`REPCONFIG`{.envar} Input
    File"](ch07s03.html "7.3. REPCONFIG Input File")) needed for
    configuring different types of reports for quality assurance.

-   [**Understand the operations that SMOKE is performing:**]{.bold} Any
    available technical documentation regarding SMOKE operations is
    provided in [Chapter 5, *SMOKE Utility
    Tools*](ch05.html "Chapter 5. SMOKE Utility Tools"), [Chapter 6,
    *SMOKE Core Programs*](ch06.html "Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs"),
    and [Chapter 7, *SMOKE Quality
    Assurance*](ch07.html "Chapter 7. SMOKE Quality Assurance") for each
    SMOKE program. We are continually working to enhance this
    documentation and can take suggestions through the CMAS Center Help
    Desk (see next bullet).

-   [**Submit problem reports or questions about SMOKE:**]{.bold} All
    questions and problems concerning SMOKE and other Models-3
    components should be submitted through the [CMAS Center Help
    Desk](http://www.cmascenter.org/html/help.html).
:::

This manual does not provide substantial technical documentation on the
code itself, though some information is provided in [Chapter 11, *Source
Code and Include
Files*](ch11.html "Chapter 11. Source Code and Include Files"). The code
does have extensive in-line documentation to assist Fortran-savvy users
in understanding its workings. We hope that in the future we will be
able to enhance the documentation in [Chapter 11, *Source Code and
Include Files*](ch11.html "Chapter 11. Source Code and Include Files"),
but are unsure of the necessity and have not obtained resources for such
documentation to date.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------
  [Prev](ch01s02.html)      [Up](ch01.html)               [Next](ch02.html)
  1.2. SMOKE Users         [Home](index.html)     Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts
  ----------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------
:::
