::: {.navheader}
1.3. How to Use this Manual
:::

[Prev](ch01s02.html) 

Chapter 1. Introduction

 [Next](ch02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#d0e383}1.3. How to Use this Manual {#how-to-use-this-manual .title style="clear: both"}
--------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

This document is the most complete reference available on SMOKE. It is
available both as a set of HTML pages and PDF document (including page
numbers) from the [CMAS center](http://www.cmascenter.org).

Given below are typical activities for which users need this manual, and
the resources available to meet those needs.

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**Install SMOKE:**]{.bold} Installation instructions are available
    in [Chapter 12, *Downloading, Installing, and Compiling
    SMOKE*](ch12.html "Chapter 12. Downloading, Installing, and Compiling SMOKE").
    To register and download SMOKE, visit the [CMAS Model
    Clearinghouse](http://www.cmascenter.org/html/models.html).

-   [**Compile SMOKE:**]{.bold} [Section 12.4, "Compiling SMOKE for
    UNIX"](ch12s04.html "12.4. Compiling SMOKE for UNIX") provides
    instructions for compiling SMOKE for platforms other than the
    default ones supported by the CMAS Center.

-   [**Run SMOKE test case:**]{.bold} [Section 4.3, "Running the SMOKE
    test case"](ch04s03.html "4.3. Running the SMOKE test case")
    provides instructions for running the test case provided with SMOKE.

-   [**Set up and run SMOKE for new inventory, grid, episode,
    etc.:**]{.bold} [Section 4.4, "How to use
    SMOKE"](ch04s04.html "4.4. How to use SMOKE") includes instructions
    on how users can set up SMOKE for their own cases. The [SMOKE
    classroom training](http://www.cmascenter.org/training.cfm)
    available through the CMAS Center covers these topics in more
    detail.

-   [**Prepare input files:**]{.bold} Most SMOKE input files are ASCII
    files that can be prepared using database programs or other tools.
    Descriptions of all input file formats are found in [Chapter 8,
    *SMOKE Input Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files").
    Users may obtain input data files (perhaps not in SMOKE input
    format) from EPA web sites, such as the Clearinghouse for
    Inventories and Emission Factors (CHIEF) [web
    site](http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/emch/).

-   [**Decide how to assign settings in run scripts:**]{.bold} In
    [Chapter 4, *How to Use
    SMOKE*](ch04.html "Chapter 4. How to Use SMOKE"), we cover the SMOKE
    scripts and how to use them. The settings are assigned via
    environment variables, which are explained in general terms in
    [Section 2.2, "Assigns file and environment
    variables"](ch02s02.html "2.2. Assigns file and environment variables").
    Any settings used to control the scripts (not the programs) are
    described in [Section 4.2.4, "Script
    settings"](ch04s02s04.html "4.2.4. Script settings"). The settings
    that are evaluated by SMOKE programs and directly affect their
    behavior are further explained in [Chapter 5, *SMOKE Utility
    Tools*](ch05.html "Chapter 5. SMOKE Utility Tools"), [Chapter 6,
    *SMOKE Core Programs*](ch06.html "Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs"),
    and [Chapter 7, *SMOKE Quality
    Assurance*](ch07.html "Chapter 7. SMOKE Quality Assurance").

-   [**Check that SMOKE has run properly:**]{.bold} [Section 7.5,
    "Quality Assurance
    Methods"](ch07s05.html "7.5. Quality Assurance Methods") includes a
    list of steps regarding how to verify that SMOKE has run properly.
    This chapter also includes instructions on running the quality
    assurance (QA) features of SMOKE and documentation on the reporting
    control file ([Section 7.3, "`REPCONFIG`{.envar} Input
    File"](ch07s03.html "7.3. REPCONFIG Input File")) needed for
    configuring different types of reports for quality assurance.

-   [**Understand the operations that SMOKE is performing:**]{.bold} Any
    available technical documentation regarding SMOKE operations is
    provided in [Chapter 5, *SMOKE Utility
    Tools*](ch05.html "Chapter 5. SMOKE Utility Tools"), [Chapter 6,
    *SMOKE Core Programs*](ch06.html "Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs"),
    and [Chapter 7, *SMOKE Quality
    Assurance*](ch07.html "Chapter 7. SMOKE Quality Assurance") for each
    SMOKE program. We are continually working to enhance this
    documentation and can take suggestions through the CMAS Center Help
    Desk (see next bullet).

-   [**Submit problem reports or questions about SMOKE:**]{.bold} All
    questions and problems concerning SMOKE and other Models-3
    components should be submitted through the [CMAS Center Help
    Desk](http://www.cmascenter.org/html/help.html).
:::

This manual does not provide substantial technical documentation on the
code itself, though some information is provided in [Chapter 11, *Source
Code and Include
Files*](ch11.html "Chapter 11. Source Code and Include Files"). The code
does have extensive in-line documentation to assist Fortran-savvy users
in understanding its workings. We hope that in the future we will be
able to enhance the documentation in [Chapter 11, *Source Code and
Include Files*](ch11.html "Chapter 11. Source Code and Include Files"),
but are unsure of the necessity and have not obtained resources for such
documentation to date.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------
  [Prev](ch01s02.html)      [Up](ch01.html)               [Next](ch02.html)
  1.2. SMOKE Users         [Home](index.html)     Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts
  ----------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------
:::
