::: {.navheader}
Chapter 1. Introduction
:::

[Prev](index.html) 

 

 [Next](ch01s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.chapter lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#ch_introduction}Chapter 1. Introduction {#chapter-1.-introduction .title}
-------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[1.1. Synopsis of SMOKE](ch01.html#d0e62)]{.section}

[[1.2. SMOKE Users](ch01s02.html)]{.section}

[[1.3. How to Use this Manual](ch01s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#d0e62}1.1. Synopsis of SMOKE {#synopsis-of-smoke .title style="clear: both"}
--------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

The environmental community has developed advanced numerical air quality
models (AQMs) to understand the interactions among meteorology,
emissions (both manmade and biogenic), and pollutant chemistry and
dynamics. Emissions data from emissions models and regulatory
inventories are one of the most important inputs for these air quality
models. Scientists use air quality modeling for a number of purposes:
for state and federal implementation plan development, for research on
improved modeling methods, and most recently for air quality
forecasting. In all of these cases, the trend has been to model larger
regions, at a finer grid resolution, with more emissions sources, and
for more purposes (e.g., ozone, particulates, toxics). These needs
require a computationally efficient, user-friendly, and flexible
emissions data processing system.

The MCNC Environmental Modeling Center (EMC) created the Sparse Matrix
Operator Kernel Emissions (SMOKE) Modeling System to allow emissions
data processing methods to integrate high-performance-computing (HPC)
sparse-matrix algorithms. The SMOKE system is a significant addition to
the available resources for decision-making about emissions controls for
both urban and regional applications. It provides a mechanism for
preparing specialized inputs for air quality modeling research, and it
makes air quality forecasting possible. The SMOKE system continues to
develop and improve at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill's
Institute for the Environment (IE).

The SMOKE prototype, available since 1996, was an effective tool for
emissions processing in a number of regional air quality modeling
applications. In 1998 and 1999, SMOKE was redesigned and improved with
the support of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The
primary purposes of the first SMOKE redesign were support of (1)
emissions processing with user-selected chemical mechanisms (described
in more detail in [Section 2.11, "Chemical speciation
processing"](ch02s11.html "2.11. Chemical speciation processing")) and
(2) emissions processing for reactivity assessments (described in
[Section 2.14.3, "Creating the reactivity control
matrix"](ch02s14s03.html "2.14.3. Creating the reactivity control matrix")).
In 2002, SMOKE was enhanced to support driving the MOBILE6 model used to
create on-road mobile emission factors and to support on-road and
nonroad mobile toxics inventories, resulting in SMOKE v1.5. In 2003,
SMOKE v2.0 was created to include all toxic inventories, including point
and nonpoint (stationary sources reported at the county level) sources.
SMOKE v2.1, released in 2004, included updated versions of the BEIS3 and
MOBILE6.2 models, the ability to use humidity data when processing
on-road mobile sources with MOBILE6, and support for polar stereographic
output grids. In 2009, SMOKE v2.6 enhanced the processing of fire data,
streamlined the processing for CAMx and UAM models, and added a new
approach to processing CEM data. Version 2.7, SMOKE was enhanced to
support processing the MOVES (MOter Vehicle Emission Simulator) emission
rates output through the SMOKE system to model on-roadway and
off-network mobile sources. As of version 4.0 SMOKE is enhanced to
support hemispheric modeling by enabling the processing of global
gridded emission inventories, such as EDGAR, for input to
chemistry-tranport models.

SMOKE can process criteria gaseous pollutants such as carbon monoxide
(CO), nitrogen oxides (NO~x~), volatile organic compounds (VOC), ammonia
(NH~3~), sulfur dioxide (SO~2~); particulate matter (PM) pollutants such
as PM 2.5 microns or less (PM~2.5~) and PM less than 10 microns
(PM~10~); as well as a large array of toxic pollutants, such as mercury,
cadmium, benzene, and formaldehyde. In fact, SMOKE has no limitation
regarding the number or types of pollutants it can process.

The purpose of SMOKE (or any emissions processor) is to convert the
resolution of the emission inventory data to the resolution needed by an
air quality model. Emission inventories are typically available with an
annual-total emissions value for each emissions source, or perhaps with
an average-day emissions value. The AQMs, however, typically require
emissions data on an hourly basis, for each model grid cell (and perhaps
model layer), and for each model species. (Refer to [Appendix A.
Glossary](go01.html "Appendix A. Glossary") for definitions of these
terms.) Consequently, emissions processing involves transforming an
emission inventory through temporal allocation, chemical speciation, and
spatial allocation, to achieve the input requirements of the AQM.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------
  [Prev](index.html)                                  [Next](ch01s02.html)
  SMOKE v4.7 User's Manual     [Home](index.html)         1.2. SMOKE Users
  --------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------
:::
