::: {.navheader}
1.2. SMOKE Users
:::

[Prev](ch01.html) 

Chapter 1. Introduction

 [Next](ch01s03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#d0e96}1.2. SMOKE Users {#smoke-users .title style="clear: both"}
--------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

Possible SMOKE users are individuals who need to prepare emission input
files for one of the following air quality models:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Community Multiscale Air Quality (CMAQ) modeling system
-   Comprehensive Air Quality Model, with Extensions (CAM~X~)
-   Urban Airshed Model, version 4 (UAM-IV)
-   Urban Airshed Model, Variable grid (UAM-V)
:::

We anticipate that the typical SMOKE user will have some combination of
the following experience and needs:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Those knowledgeable about emission inventories.
2.  Those with UNIX experience (including Linux).
3.  Those with little or no emissions modeling background.
4.  Those who are somewhat familiar with grid-based air quality models
    and their emissions input needs.
5.  Persons with emission inventories in hand who need to process the
    data for input to an AQM.
6.  EPA personnel who want to create emission inputs for research or
    regulatory efforts with AQMs.
7.  State environmental personnel who want to create emission inputs to
    AQMs for regulatory efforts, including State Implementation Plans
    (SIPs).
8.  Those wishing to generate an on-road mobile inventory using MOVES
    and either the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) modeling
    system or the Pennsylvania State University/National Center for
    Atmospheric Research fifth-generation Mesoscale Model (MM5) gridded,
    hourly meteorology data.
:::

SMOKE users who have previous UNIX experience can expect to run SMOKE
more easily than users who must learn both UNIX and SMOKE. This is
because the standard way to run SMOKE is from UNIX scripts.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------
  [Prev](ch01.html)            [Up](ch01.html)              [Next](ch01s03.html)
  Chapter 1. Introduction     [Home](index.html)     1.3. How to Use this Manual
  -------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------
:::
