::: {.navheader}
Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts
:::

[Prev](ch01s03.html) 

 

 [Next](ch02s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.chapter lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#ch_concepts}Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts {#chapter-2.-smoke-concepts .title}
-----------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.1. Introduction](ch02.html#d0e500)]{.section}

[[2.2. Assigns file and environment variables](ch02s02.html)]{.section}

[[2.3. Emission inventories](ch02s03.html)]{.section}

[[2.4. Cross-referencing and profiles](ch02s04.html)]{.section}

[[2.5. Input and output file types](ch02s05.html)]{.section}

[[2.6. Modeling parameters](ch02s06.html)]{.section}

[[2.7. Sparse matrix approach to emissions
modeling](ch02s07.html)]{.section}

[[2.8. Area, biogenic, mobile, and point processing
summaries](ch02s08.html)]{.section}

[[2.9. Inventory import](ch02s09.html)]{.section}

[[2.10. Temporal processing](ch02s10.html)]{.section}

[[2.11. Chemical speciation processing](ch02s11.html)]{.section}

[[2.12. Spatial processing](ch02s12.html)]{.section}

[[2.13. Growth processing](ch02s13.html)]{.section}

[[2.14. Control processing](ch02s14.html)]{.section}

[[2.15. Elevated-source processing](ch02s15.html)]{.section}

[[2.16. Mobile-source processing with MOVES](ch02s16.html)]{.section}

[[2.17. Biogenic processing](ch02s17.html)]{.section}

[[2.18. Creating model-ready emissions](ch02s18.html)]{.section}

[[2.19. Creating model-ready emissions using MOVES lookup
tables](ch02s19.html)]{.section}

[[2.20. Quality assurance](ch02s20.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#d0e500}2.1. Introduction {#introduction .title style="clear: both"}
----------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

The purpose of SMOKE is to convert the resolution of the data in an
emission inventory to the resolution needed by an air quality model.
Emission inventories typically have an annual-total emissions value for
each emissions source, or perhaps an average-day emissions value. The
AQMs, however, typically require emissions data on an hourly basis, for
each model grid cell (and perhaps model layer), and for each model
species. Consequently, to achieve the input requirements of the AQM,
emissions processing must (at a minimum) transform inventory data by
temporal allocation, chemical speciation, spatial allocation, and
perhaps layer assignment.

In addition to changing the resolution of the data, SMOKE must also
provide the AQM input files in the correct file format. SMOKE can create
the Input/Output Applications Programming Interface (I/O API) Network
Common Data Form (NetCDF) output format needed by the CMAQ model. It can
also create the Fortran binary format for the 2-D emissions needed by
UAM, and CAM~X~, and the ASCII elevated-point-source format used by the
Ptsrce preprocessor to these models. File format is also important for
the input files used by SMOKE, most of which are ASCII files, but some
of which are I/O API NetCDF or CF-compliant NetCDF format files.

In this chapter, we introduce you to various concepts that are critical
to understanding the technical description of emissions processing, as
well as provide more detail about the processing capabilities of SMOKE.
(Later, [Chapter 5, *SMOKE Utility
Tools*](ch05.html "Chapter 5. SMOKE Utility Tools"), [Chapter 6, *SMOKE
Core Programs*](ch06.html "Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs"), [Chapter 7,
*SMOKE Quality
Assurance*](ch07.html "Chapter 7. SMOKE Quality Assurance"), [Chapter 8,
*SMOKE Input Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files"),
[Chapter 9, *SMOKE Intermediate
Files*](ch09.html "Chapter 9. SMOKE Intermediate Files"), and
[Chapter 10, *SMOKE Output
Files*](ch10.html "Chapter 10. SMOKE Output Files") give more specifics
about each program's capabilities and each file's format.) This chapter
provides the context and framework for the rest of the user's manual. To
assist you in reading and using this chapter, we provide [Appendix A.
Glossary](go01.html "Appendix A. Glossary") for definitions of emissions
inventory and emissions modeling terminology.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ -------------------- ----------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch01s03.html)                                                          [Next](ch02s02.html)
  1.3. How to Use this Manual     [Home](index.html)     2.2. Assigns file and environment variables
  ------------------------------ -------------------- ----------------------------------------------
:::
