::: {.navheader}
2.16.3. SMOKE Model Processing
:::

[Prev](ch02s16s02.html) 

2.16. Mobile-source processing with MOVES

 [Next](ch02s17.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e7399}2.16.3. SMOKE Model Processing {#smoke-model-processing .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Once the **Met4moves** meteorology preprocessor and the MOVES model
processing that results in the SMOKE-formatted emissions factor lookup
tables are completed, we address the remaining major component of the
SMOKE-MOVES tool: the SMOKE model processing step. The goals of this
step are (1) to estimate emissions from on-road mobile sources based on
MOVES-based emissions lookup tables and meteorology data, (2) to create
hourly gridded speciated air quality model-ready input files, and (3) to
produce various types of reports for the user.

As some readers are aware, MOBILE6 and MOVES are both vehicle emissions
modeling systems used with SMOKE. However, they differ in their
approaches to calculating off-network evaporative emissions. In MOBILE6,
off-network emissions processes are calculated as emission factors in
grams/mile, which is related to Vehicle Mileage Travelled (VMT). MOVES,
on the other hand, uses the source (vehicle) type population (VPOP) to
calculate start and off-network evaporative emissions, which are
assigned to off-network emissions processes; these processes are
hour-dependent due to VPOP (activity) assumptions built into the MOVES
model. Thus, compared to the SMOKE-MOBILE6 approach, the SMOKE-MOVES
approach requires additional vehicle population inventory data as input
for estimating mobile-source emissions from off-network emissions
processes. This requirement is reflected in the discussion below.

When processing mobile-source emissions from MOVES, SMOKE performs the
following basic steps.

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**Smkinven**](ch06s13.html "6.13. Smkinven") imports county-total
    VMT and average speed, and county-total vehicle hotelling hours
    (HOTELLING) by SCC for On-roadway Emission Processes and
    county-total vehicle population (VPOP) by vehicle type for
    Off-network Emission Processes.
-   [**Spcmat**](ch06s15.html "6.15. Spcmat") computes the chemical
    speciation factors for each county, fuel type, source (=vehicle)
    type, road type, emission process, and pollutant, and stores the
    necessary factors for the VMT-to-species in RatePerDistance (RPD),
    HOTELLING-to-species in RatePerHour (RPH), and VPOP-to-species
    transformations in RatePerVehicle (RPV) and RatePerProfile (RPP).
-   [**Grdmat**](ch06s04.html "6.4. Grdmat") allocates the county
    sources to grid cells and uses spatial surrogates to allocate
    county-total VMT, HOTELLING, and VPOP to grid cells, storing the
    factors needed for these allocations.
-   [**Temporal**](ch06s16.html "6.16. Temporal") computes hourly VMT
    and HOTELLING activity data for On-roadway Emission Processes (RPD
    and RPH tables). Off-network Emission Processes (RPV and RPP tables)
    do not require the **Temporal** program because vehicle population
    does not need to be temporally allocated.
:::

The way the MOVES-generated emissions factor lookup tables are used
varies according to whether SMOKE is modeling on-roadway emission
processes or off-network emissions processes.

On-roadway emission processes: When estimates of all on-roadway emission
processes except for extended idle exhaust are needed, SMOKE requires
county-total VMT and average hourly speed (SPEED) inventory data as
inputs to a SMOKE postprocessor called **Movesmrg** which is part of the
SMOKE-MOVES tool. When extended idle exhaust process is estimated,
counthy-total HOTELLING activity data is needed for **Movesmrg**.
**Movesmrg** uses [the SMOKE-ready MOVES RPD and RPH lookup
tables](ch02s16s02.html#tbl_concepts_moves_lookup_tbl_sm_format "Table 2.11. MOVES Emission Rate Lookup Table (SMOKE Format)")
as an input to estimate on-road sources emission. The key lookup fields
for RPD are gridded hourly temperature and average hourly speed from the
avgSpeedBinID field for RPD. SMOKE interpolates in the emission factors
lookup table (in unit of grams/mile) based on gridded hourly temperature
and average speed. [Figure 2.13, "MOVES mobile RatePerDistance
processing
steps"](ch02s08s04.html#fig_concepts_mobile_moves_onroad "Figure 2.13. MOVES mobile RatePerDistance processing steps")
shows processing steps for on-roadway emissions processes in the SMOKE
system using VMT and SPEED activity inventory data. For RPH, the gridded
houlry temperature is used to interpolate in the emission factors lookup
table (in unit of grams/hour).

Off-network emission processes: When estimates are needed for
off-network emissions processes, including the off-network vapor venting
emissions process, SMOKE uses county-total VPOP by vehicle type as input
to **Movesmrg** together with the SMOKE-ready RatePerVehicle (RPV) and
RatePerProfile (RPP) lookup tables. [Figure 2.14, "MOVES mobile
RatePerVehicle and RatPereProfile (off-network) processing
steps"](ch02s08s04.html#fig_concepts_mobile_moves_offroad "Figure 2.14. MOVES mobile RatePerVehicle and RatPereProfile (off-network) processing steps")
shows processing steps for off-network emissions processes in the SMOKE
modeling system using vehicle population activity inventory data. A
significant difference in the processing steps between the on-roadway
emissions processes (RPD table) and the off-network emissions processes
(RPV and RPP tables) is that off-network emissions processing does not
require the **Temporal** program step because vehicle population (VPOP)
does not need to be temporally allocated. In the RPV table, gridded
hourly temperature and hour of the day are the key lookup fields SMOKE
uses to estimate hourly off-network emissions in unit of
grams/vehicle/hour. For the evaporative fuel off-network vapor venting
emissions process only, **Movesmrg** uses the RPP lookup table to
estimate the emission rates based on the minimum and maximum
temperatures computed by **Met4moves**.

For all SMOKE-ready three emission rate lookup tables (RPD, RPV, RPP),
SMOKE performs linear interpolation when using them.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s16s02.html)            [Up](ch02s16.html)          [Next](ch02s17.html)
  2.16.2. MOVES Model Processing     [Home](index.html)     2.17. Biogenic processing
  --------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------
:::
