::: {.navheader}
2.16. Mobile-source processing with MOVES
:::

[Prev](ch02s15s02.html) 

Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts

 [Next](ch02s16s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_concepts_onroad_processing_moves}2.16. Mobile-source processing with MOVES {#mobile-source-processing-with-moves .title style="clear: both"}
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.16.1. Meteorology Data Processing](ch02s16.html#d0e7006)]{.section}

[[2.16.2. MOVES Model Processing](ch02s16s02.html)]{.section}

[[2.16.3. SMOKE Model Processing](ch02s16s03.html)]{.section}
:::

MOVES is the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency\'s (EPA) Motor Vehicle
Emission Simulator. In the modeling process, the user specifies vehicle
types, time periods, geographical areas, pollutants, vehicle operating
characteristics, and road types to be modeled. The model then performs a
series of calculations, which have been carefully developed to
accurately reflect vehicle operating processes (such as cold start or
extended idle) and provide estimates of bulk emissions or emission
rates.

An important feature of MOVES is that it allows users to choose between
(1) the Inventory calculation type, which provides emission rates in
terms of total quantity of emissions for a given time period; and (2)
Emission Rate calculation type, which gives emission rates in terms of
grams/mile or grams/vehicle/hour. For large-scale emissions modeling
such as that needed for regional- and national-scale air quality
modeling projects, it is desirable to use the Emission Rate calculation
type, which populates emission rate lookup tables that can then be
applied to many times and places, thus reducing the total number of
MOVES runs required.

To reduce the time and effort and to help the user obtain more accurate
modeling results, users need to prepare and post-process MOVES runs for
a representative county (See [Section 2.8.4.6, "Representative
Counties"](ch02s08s04.html#sect_concepts_reference_counties_moves "2.8.4.6. Representative Counties"))
and reference fuel month (See [Section 2.8.4.7, "Reference Fuel
month"](ch02s08s04.html#sect_concepts_moves_reference_fuel_month "2.8.4.7. Reference Fuel month"))
This approach consists of a set of scripts that automate the proper use
of the Emission Rate calculations for the purpose of estimating
mobile-source emissions for air quality (AQ) modeling.

Integrating MOVES into SMOKE modeling system consists of three major
parts:

1\) Meteorological data processing

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   The meteorological data preprocessor program
    [**Met4moves**](ch06s07.html "6.7. Met4moves") prepares spatially
    and temporally averaged temperatures and relative humidity data to
    set up the meteorological input conditions for MOVES and SMOKE using
    the Meteorology-Chemistry Interface Processor (MCIP) output files.
:::

2\) MOVES model processing

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [The MOVES Driver
    script](ch05s02s02.html "5.2.2. MOVES Driver Scripts") :
    **"[Runspec\_generator.pl]{.quote}"** creates data importer files
    and the MOVES input file (runspec), which specifies the
    characteristics of the particular scenario to be modeled.
-   [The MOVES postprocessing
    scripts](ch05s02s04.html "5.2.4. MOVES Post-processing scripts") :
    **"[Moves2smkEF.pl]{.quote}"** formats the MOVES emission rate
    lookup tables for SMOKE. **"[gen\_8digit\_scc.pl]{.quote}"**
    generates an SCC mapping file used when importing activity data.
:::

3\) SMOKE model processing

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Spatially and temporally allocate mobile onroad activity data (i.e.,
    Vehicle Mileage Traveled and Vehicle population).
-   The MOVES postprocessing program,
    [**Movesmrg**](ch06s08.html "6.8. Movesmrg"), estimates emissions
    from on-road mobile sources based on MOVES-based emission rate
    lookup tables and meteorology data from **Met4moves**.
-   Creates hourly gridded speciated air quality model-ready input
    files.
-   Produces various types of reports for users.
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e7006}2.16.1. Meteorology Data Processing {#meteorology-data-processing .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

With the specified representative county and reference fuel month
approach for temperature and RH calculation for MOVES and SMOKE modeling
systems, **Met4moves** uses hourly min/max temperatures and averaged RH
over the spatial region that includes all of the inventory counties in a
county group over the user-defined modeling period. **Met4moves**
supports the averaging method (monthly or daily) to create min/max
temperatures and averaged RH for all inventory counties in the county
group(s). **Met4moves** determines the min/max grid cell temperatures
and associated RH for both SMOKE and MOVES, and computes average 24-hour
temperature profiles using Meteorology-Chemistry Interface Processor
(MCIP) output files for use in MOVES. These **Met4moves** program is
discussed in detail in [Section 6.7,
"**Met4moves**"](ch06s07.html "6.7. Met4moves").

The 24-hour temperature profiles are averaged over a user-specified time
period and grid cells for all representative counties. For [the MOVES
Driver scripts](ch05s02.html "5.2. MOVES Utility Scripts"),
**Met4moves** outputs monthly average RH, min/max temperatures, and
24-hour temperature profiles in local time for all representative
counties into one output file. For the SMOKE model, **Met4moves**
outputs county-specific min/max temperatures and averaged RH values in
local time for every inventory county and averaging period in the
modeling inventory.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s15s02.html)                                          [Up](ch02.html)              [Next](ch02s16s02.html)
  2.15.2. Creating an elevated-source file for UAM and CAM~X~     [Home](index.html)     2.16.2. MOVES Model Processing
  -------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------
:::
