::: {.navheader}
2.10.8. Creating the intermediate files
:::

[Prev](ch02s10s07.html) 

2.10. Temporal processing

 [Next](ch02s11.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e5496}2.10.8. Creating the intermediate files {#creating-the-intermediate-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Finally, the **Temporal** program must output intermediate files. The
hourly emissions are written to the `ATMP`{.envar}, `MTMP`{.envar}, and
`PTMP`{.envar} I/O API files. Unlike the other major SMOKE intermediate
files (e.g., the matrices), the actual emissions (not just factors) are
written to this file. This is because day-specific and hour-specific
emissions can be impossible to convert into factors since the annual
inventory emissions for the day- or hour-specific sources could be zero
and factors would not be able to change that.

If **Temporal** has more than 120 variables to output (the limit for the
number of variables in an I/O API file), **Temporal** opens as many
files (using the FileSetAPI wrapper) as are needed to store the data.
SMOKE also estimates how large the output files will be using 120
variables per file and automatically lowers the number of variables that
will be put in each I/O API output file to ensure that the files use
less than 2 GB of disk space. In addition, **Temporal** writes the
supplementary files `ATSUP`{.envar}, `MTSUP`{.envar}, or
`PTSUP`{.envar}, which contain the temporal profiles assigned to each
source. The structures of the SMOKE intermediate files output by
**Temporal** are provided in [Section 9.14,
"**Temporal**"](ch09s14.html "9.14. Temporal").
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s10s07.html)                     [Up](ch02s10.html)                     [Next](ch02s11.html)
  2.10.7. Processing Non-sequential Dates     [Home](index.html)     2.11. Chemical speciation processing
  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------------------
:::
