::: {.navheader}
2.10.2. Applying monthly, weekly, and diurnal profiles
:::

[Prev](ch02s10.html) 

2.10. Temporal processing

 [Next](ch02s10s03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e4980}2.10.2. Applying monthly, weekly, and diurnal profiles {#applying-monthly-weekly-and-diurnal-profiles .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The **Temporal** program uses a cross-reference file and a temporal
profiles file to assign the temporal profiles to the inventory sources.
The cross-reference file can assign the profiles using a hierarchy that
is based on the source characteristics. A detailed list of valid
assignments is given in [Section 6.16,
"**Temporal**"](ch06s16.html "6.16. Temporal") with the detailed
description of the **Temporal** program. The cross-reference assigns a
monthly, weekly, and diurnal profile to each source, and can also assign
default profiles to sources that don't have more specific matches in the
cross-reference file. When default assignments are made by the
**Temporal** program, you can optionally choose to have warnings given
for all of these assignments, using the `REPORT_DEFAULTS`{.envar}
option.

The temporal profiles file has different sections that contain the
monthly, weekly, and diurnal profiles. Additionally, you may provide
different weekend (Saturday, Sunday) and weekday (Monday through Friday)
diurnal profiles, or you may provide a different set of diurnal profiles
for each day of the week.

When using multiple diurnal profiles, a given source must use a diurnal
profile with the same profile code for each day. For example, if a
source uses diurnal profile 1 for Monday, it will also use profile 1 for
Tuesday, but Monday's profile 1 can be different than Tuesday's profile
1.

For weekly profiles, **Temporal** evaluates the TPFLAG setting (set by
**Smkinven** as explained in [Section 2.9.13, "Set the weekday averaging
approach"](ch02s09s13.html "2.9.13. Set the weekday averaging approach"))
and uses the weekly-normalized weekly profiles or weekday-normalized
weekly profiles, depending on the setting.

One limitation of using monthly, weekly, and diurnal profiles is that
there is no week-to-week variation within a month. For example, all
Tuesdays in a month use the same emissions profile (unless one happens
to be a holiday, see [Section 2.10.5, "Holiday
processing"](ch02s10s05.html "2.10.5. Holiday processing")). This
limitation can be overcome by using day-specific emissions data (only
for point sources).
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s10.html)          [Up](ch02s10.html)                            [Next](ch02s10s03.html)
  2.10. Temporal processing     [Home](index.html)     2.10.3. Using day- and hour-specific emissions
  ---------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------------------
:::
