::: {.navheader}
2.10.4. Time zone adjustments
:::

[Prev](ch02s10s03.html) 

2.10. Temporal processing

 [Next](ch02s10s05.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_time_zones}2.10.4. Time zone adjustments {#time-zone-adjustments .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

You can use the `OUTZONE`{.envar} setting to control the output time
zone that defines the hours in the output files. The one constraint on
this setting is that it must be consistent with the time zone of the
meteorology files. These files are used only when processing on-road
mobile sources with MOVES/MOBILE6 (optional), processing elevated point
sources for the CMAQ-based approach (required), or processing biogenic
emissions with SMOKE BEIS3 (required). The time zones must be consistent
among all source categories processed, so if one source category depends
on the meteorology file, then all source categories must be processed
with the same `OUTZONE`{.envar} setting.

**Temporal** compares the `OUTZONE`{.envar} value with the time zone of
the source, which was set in **Smkinven** (see [Section 2.9.14, "Assign
country codes, years, and time
zones"](ch02s09s14.html "2.9.14. Assign country codes, years, and time zones"))
based on the county. Additionally, it assesses and accounts for whether
the date being processed falls within the range of Daylight Savings
Time, and whether the county of the source uses Daylight Savings Time.
**Temporal** uses the `COSTCY`{.envar} or the `GEOCODE_LEVEL4`{.envar}
(if USE\_EXP\_GEOCODES Y) file to determine which counties use Daylight
Savings Time and which do not; for example, the state of Arizona does
not use it. Using these pieces of information, **Temporal** interprets
the diurnal profiles assuming that they are local profiles in order to
map the correct adjustment to the correct output hour in the output time
zone. **Temporal** also uses the time zone of the source and the output
time zone to determine the correct hour for switching from one month to
the next and from one day of the week to the next.

[Table 2.9, "Example `OUTZONE`{.envar} settings and their associated
time
zones"](ch02s10s04.html#tbl_concepts_outzone "Table 2.9. Example OUTZONE settings and their associated time zones")
lists a sampling of `OUTZONE`{.envar} settings and the time zones that
they represent. Note that SMOKE expects `OUTZONE`{.envar} to be set as a
positive number for time zones in the Western Hemisphere, although
standard notation would list these as negative values. For example,
Eastern Standard Time is listed in this table as -5:00 hours from GMT,
but `OUTZONE`{.envar} for EST in SMOKE is 5. One result of this
implementation is that SMOKE does not work perfectly for time zones east
of GMT.

::: {.table}
[]{#tbl_concepts_outzone}

**Table 2.9. Example `OUTZONE`{.envar} settings and their associated
time zones**

  `OUTZONE`{.envar}   GMT      Time zone   Description
  ------------------- -------- ----------- ---------------------------
  12                  -12:00   BIT         Baker Island Time
  11                  -11:00   SST         Samoa Standard Time
  10                  -10:00   HST         Hawaii Standard Time
  9                   -9:00    AKT         Alaska Standard Time
  8                   -8:00    PST         Pacific Standard Time
  7                   -7:00    MST         Mountain Standard Time
  6                   -6:00    CST         Central Standard Time
  5                   -5:00    EST         Eastern Standard Time
  4                   -4:00    AST         Atlantic Standard Time
  3                   -3:00    ART         Argentina Time
  2                   -2:00    FNT         Fernando de Noronha Time
  1                   -1:00    EGT         Eastern Greenland Time
  0                   0:00     GMT         Greenwich Mean Time
  -1                  1:00     CET         Central European Time
  -2                  2:00     EET         Eastern European Time
  -3                  3:00     MSK         Moscow Time
  -4                  4:00     GST         Gulf Standard Time
  -5                  5:00     PKT         Pakistan Standard Time
  -6                  6:00     BST         Bangladesh Standard Time
  -7                  7:00     THA         Thailand Time
  -8                  8:00     HKT         China Standard Time
  -9                  9:00     KST         Korean Standard Time
  -10                 10:00    AET         Australian Eastern Time
  -11                 11:00    ADT         Australian Daylight Time
  -12                 12:00    FJT         Fiji Time
  -13                 13:00    NZT         New Zealand Daylight Time
  -14                 14:00    LNT         Line Islands Time
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s10s03.html)                            [Up](ch02s10.html)        [Next](ch02s10s05.html)
  2.10.3. Using day- and hour-specific emissions     [Home](index.html)     2.10.5. Holiday processing
  ------------------------------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------------
:::
