::: {.navheader}
2.2. Assigns file and environment variables
:::

[Prev](ch02.html) 

Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts

 [Next](ch02s03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_concepts_assigns}2.2. Assigns file and environment variables {#assigns-file-and-environment-variables .title style="clear: both"}
---------------------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

The Assigns file is a script used to set up the parameters of a SMOKE
run. The file configures the UNIX environment so that all of the correct
input, intermediate, and output directories and files can be identified
and used by the SMOKE programs. It also sets things like the name of the
grid and the time period that you will run SMOKE for a given case. It
does this by setting many UNIX environment variables, explained in the
next paragraph. The Assigns file also uses environment variables to
configure compiler options, so that SMOKE can be compiled on operating
system other than the ones provided with the SMOKE distribution. More
information on the Assigns file is provided in [Section 4.2.2.2,
"Assigns
files"](ch04s02s02.html#sect_scripts_assigns_files "4.2.2.2. Assigns files").

Environment variables are aliases that can be set by a UNIX operating
system. These variables are defined during a user's UNIX session,
usually defined by an **xterm** or other UNIX terminal window. The
environment variables that SMOKE uses store the input, intermediate, and
output files and directories. For example, the environment variable for
the directory that is the SMOKE root directory is `SMKROOT`{.envar}. At
the UNIX prompt, this environment variable could be defined to an actual
path such as `/home/mylogin/smoke`{.filename}. To set an environment
variable, the UNIX **setenv** command is needed. In this example, the
command to define `SMKROOT`{.envar} as the given path is:

**`setenv SMKROOT` `/home/mylogin/smoke`{.filename}**

After this command is issued, the `SMKROOT`{.envar} environment variable
stores the characters `/home/mylogin/smoke`{.filename} as its value. To
use the value of an environment variable, the dollar sign must proceed
the variable name at the UNIX prompt. In the follow example, we give the
UNIX command **echo** to print the contents of the `SMKROOT`{.envar}
environment variable at the UNIX prompt. Note the use of the dollar sign
before the `SMKROOT`{.envar} variable name.

**`echo $SMKROOT`**

When the UNIX system executes this command, the following is displayed
at the UNIX prompt:

`/home/mylogin/smoke`{.computeroutput}

The environment variables set by the Assigns file for directories are
described in [Chapter 3, *SMOKE Directory
Structure*](ch03.html "Chapter 3. SMOKE Directory Structure"). The
variables used by the SMOKE scripts for controlling SMOKE execution are
described in [Section 4.2.4, "Script
settings"](ch04s02s04.html "4.2.4. Script settings"). Finally, the
environment variables that control program behavior are described in
[Chapter 5, *SMOKE Utility
Tools*](ch05.html "Chapter 5. SMOKE Utility Tools"), [Chapter 6, *SMOKE
Core Programs*](ch06.html "Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs"), and
[Chapter 7, *SMOKE Quality
Assurance*](ch07.html "Chapter 7. SMOKE Quality Assurance").
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------
  [Prev](ch02.html)              [Up](ch02.html)            [Next](ch02s03.html)
  Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts     [Home](index.html)     2.3. Emission inventories
  ---------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------
:::
