::: {.navheader}
2.9.5. Combine toxics and criteria inventories
:::

[Prev](ch02s09s04.html) 

2.9. Inventory import

 [Next](ch02s09s06.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_combine_toxics}2.9.5. Combine toxics and criteria inventories {#combine-toxics-and-criteria-inventories .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

For point, nonpoint, on-road mobile, and nonroad-mobile sources, the
toxics inventory contains emissions for VOC pollutants that are provided
as explicit chemical compounds (for example, benzene). These same VOC
emissions are also included as an aggregated VOC value in the criteria
emissions inventory. To use these inventories together, **Smkinven**
provides the necessary options to ensure that double counting of VOC
emissions will not occur. These two options are the
"[integrate]{.quote}" and "[no-integrate]{.quote}" options.

The "[integrate]{.quote}" option involves subtracting toxic VOC
emissions from the criteria VOC emissions to avoid double counting of
VOC when the emissions are speciated. With this option the user must
ensure that the sources in the toxics and criteria inventories match up
one-to-one, so that **Smkinven** can properly compute the emissions.

Note that in any discussion of the toxics inventory we have assumed that
all emissions are annual total emissions, because the toxics inventory
that is currently available does not include average-day emissions. We
have also assumed that the inventory contains VOC emissions, but the
same approach can be used to process TOG emissions.

During import of both toxics and criteria emission inventories, SMOKE
matches the area/nonpoint, on-road mobile, and nonroad mobile emission
inventories by country/state/county code and SCC. SMOKE also matches the
toxics and criteria records for the point sources, provided that the
point sources in the two inventories use identical fields for their
source characteristics. You are required to ensure that the source
characteristics for all source categories match between the two
inventories for any sources that you wish to have matched. Once they are
matched, SMOKE will have both a criteria VOC emissions value and toxics
emission values for individual VOC chemical compounds.

SMOKE can optionally compute a NONHAPVOC value by subtracting the sum of
toxics VOC from the criteria VOC value. This same approach can be used
to create a NONHAPTOG value if the inventory or MOVES (when processing
on-road mobile emissions using VMT data) uses a TOG value instead of a
VOC value. (We will not mention NONHAPTOG again, but it could be used to
replace NONHAPVOC throughout this section).

The case of computing NONHAPVOC is called the "[integrate]{.quote}" case
because it involves integration of the VOC mass between the criteria and
toxics inventories. Likewise, the case of not computing NONHAPVOC is
called the "[no-integrate]{.quote}" case. With the "[integrate]{.quote}"
approach, the NONHAPVOC mass and the toxics VOC mass are independent
from one another and will not double count emissions. The calculation
must be performed for each source, and **Smkinven** will set the
criteria VOC value to zero when it computes the NONHAPVOC value.
**Smkinven** determines which pollutants should be subtracted from VOC
using the "[VOC or TOG]{.quote}" column in the inventory table
(`INVTABLE`{.envar}) file.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s09s04.html)                [Up](ch02s09.html)       [Next](ch02s09s06.html)
  2.9.4. Check for duplicate records     [Home](index.html)     2.9.6. Sort the inventory
  ------------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------
:::
