::: {.navheader}
2.20. Quality assurance
:::

[Prev](ch02s19.html) 

Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts

 [Next](ch03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_concepts_qa_processing}2.20. Quality assurance {#quality-assurance .title style="clear: both"}
-------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

Quality assuring SMOKE emissions includes a combination of (1) steps
performed by SMOKE programs and (2) postprocessing steps performed by
the user.

The SMOKE components that play a role in quality assurance consist of
the following:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  The various SMOKE programs perform file format checks of all input
    files to ensure that the files can be read. The programs write
    errors and warnings if files cannot be read properly.

2.  SMOKE gives error and warning messages about inventory data that are
    not complete or are invalid, and about problems or possible problems
    combining the inventory data with the support files.

3.  Core SMOKE programs create reports, such as the area-to-point report
    provided by **Smkinven** and the control reports provided by
    **Cntlmat**.

4.  The **Smkreport** program reports emissions totals at various levels
    of data aggregation. This reporting capability currently allows you
    to generate reports of emissions by source, SCC, region (e.g.,
    state, county, or user-defined region), road class, layer, hour,
    grid cell, speciation profile, gridding surrogate code, temporal
    profile, and elevated status. The most powerful reporting feature is
    that you can combine these reporting resolutions in
    [*any*]{.emphasis} combination. In addition, reports can be created
    at each stage of processing (import, gridding, speciation, temporal
    allocation, layer assignment) or any combination of stages.
:::

**Smkreport** can combine information from any SMOKE intermediate files
(e.g., intermediate inventory file, speciation matrix, gridding matrix)
to create emissions reports. One input file to **Smkreport**, called the
`REPCONFIG`{.envar} file, instructs **Smkreport** on how many and which
reports to create. The `REPCONFIG`{.envar} file contains a series of
instructions that can be set by the user to control the contents of the
reports. More details about **Smkreport** and the `REPCONFIG`{.envar}
are provided in [Section 7.2, "**Smkreport**
Program"](ch07s02.html "7.2. Smkreport Program") and [Section 7.3,
"`REPCONFIG`{.envar} Input
File"](ch07s03.html "7.3. REPCONFIG Input File").

The second major component of quality assuring the SMOKE emissions
processing involves users taking steps to evaluate the
information/reports provided by SMOKE. These steps include:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Check that the correct settings have been selected in the run
    scripts, including the settings that control which SMOKE programs
    are run.

2.  Check the log files from all SMOKE programs for errors and warnings.
    Errors will keep the programs from running successfully, so the
    source of the error must be identified and repaired. Warnings may
    indicate that a problem exists that needs to be addressed, or
    warnings can be ignored if they are not something that will impact
    the results for the particular inventory of interest.

3.  Compare the emissions totals provided by **Smkreport** (e.g., by
    state and county) to totals of the emissions inventories computed
    outside of SMOKE. Also, compare the emissions totals from SMOKE
    between each of the processing stages. For example, for area
    sources, compare the emissions after inventory import, gridding,
    chemical speciation, temporal allocation, and final merge to ensure
    that the emissions are consistent from step to step. This involves
    some subjectivity because the emissions do in fact change from step
    to step, and the magnitude of those changes depends on the support
    input files SMOKE uses with the inventory.

4.  Check that the correct chemical speciation profiles, temporal
    profiles, and gridding surrogates were applied, using reports that
    provide this information from **Smkreport**.

5.  Perform other specific checks of **Smkreport** outputs, such as
    ensuring that the correct major point sources are in the inventory,
    comparing population-normalized emissions among the counties, and
    checking stack parameters from point sources.

6.  Ensure that the emissions data look reasonable by viewing them in
    the Visualization Environment for Rich Data Interpretation (VERDI).
:::

[Chapter 7, *SMOKE Quality
Assurance*](ch07.html "Chapter 7. SMOKE Quality Assurance") provides
much additional detail about how to proceed with quality assuring your
inventories and emissions processing.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s19.html)                                                [Up](ch02.html)                          [Next](ch03.html)
  2.19. Creating model-ready emissions using MOVES lookup tables     [Home](index.html)     Chapter 3. SMOKE Directory Structure
  ----------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------
:::
