::: {.navheader}
2.11.3. Checking the consistency of the speciation profiles with the
inventory table
:::

[Prev](ch02s11s02.html) 

2.11. Chemical speciation processing

 [Next](ch02s11s04.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e5680}2.11.3. Checking the consistency of the speciation profiles with the inventory table {#checking-the-consistency-of-the-speciation-profiles-with-the-inventory-table .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The **Spcmat** program checks to be sure that the two definitions of the
NONHAPVOC pollutant - one from the speciation profiles (`GSPRO`{.envar})
file and the other from the inventory table (`INVTABLE`{.envar}) file -
are consistent. When you are modeling with both criteria and toxics
inventories and using toxics VOC (i.e., "[integrating]{.quote}" toxics
VOC), you must ensure that the definition of toxics VOC used in the
`INVTABLE`{.envar} file is consistent with the definition in the
`GSPRO`{.envar} file. **Spcmat** cannot assure that these files are
consistent with each other, but does ensure that the information
provided by the user is consistent; it is up to you to make sure that
the information provided is correct and consistent with what is actually
in the files.

These files need to be consistent because the same pollutants that SMOKE
subtracts out of the VOC to create NONHAPVOC must also be removed when
the speciation profiles are being computed. This assures that there will
be no double-counting of mass when calculating model species from both
toxics VOC and from the criteria aggregated VOC value. The
`GSPRO`{.envar} file format includes a header that allows you to define
the toxics VOC that were removed when creating the NONHAPVOC speciation
profiles. This is intended to help you ensure that the NONHAPVOC
definition in the `GSPRO`{.envar} file is consistent with the inventory
table file. One important detail of how this is implemented is that
**Spcmat** will not include inventory pollutants that are not actually
in the inventory in the consistency check, even if the pollutant is
listed in the NONHAPVOC definition in the `GSPRO`{.envar} file.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s11s02.html)                        [Up](ch02s11.html)                             [Next](ch02s11s04.html)
  2.11.2. Pollutant-to-pollutant conversions     [Home](index.html)     2.11.4. Setting the order of the output species
  --------------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------
:::
