::: {.navheader}
2.6.4. Chemical mechanisms
:::

[Prev](ch02s06s03.html) 

2.6. Modeling parameters

 [Next](ch02s06s05.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e2002}2.6.4. Chemical mechanisms {#chemical-mechanisms .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

SMOKE can accommodate a variety of chemical mechanisms for the models it
supports. From the emissions processing perspective, the chemical
mechanism is the mapping of the pollutants provided in the emissions
inventory to the species needed by the AQM of interest. For example, the
input files for five chemical mechanisms for the CMAQ model are
available for download from the EPA; these mechanisms are Carbon Bond 6
(CB6), CB6 with particulates, Regional Acid Deposition Model, 2 (RADM2),
RADM2 with particulates, and a research version of CB6 with toxics.

In [Section 4.4.10, "Use a different speciation mechanism or change
speciation
inputs"](ch04s04s10.html "4.4.10. Use a different speciation mechanism or change speciation inputs"),
we provide the settings needed in the Assigns file to use a different
chemical mechanisms with SMOKE. SMOKE is not constrained to the files
available for download. If you need to process other data (e.g., a
tracer species) with SMOKE, they can be added to several input files,
including the chemical mechanism file, to be output to the AQM. Some
additions to chemical mechanisms are easier than others, and we explain
how to determine whether you can create the files you need for your
situation. We also give instructions on how to add species to the
chemical mechanism files and how to make sure that the inventory
pollutants are mapped to the correct chemical species.

SMOKE users must know what chemical mechanism will be used in the AQM
for which the SMOKE output emissions are intended. Once that has been
determined, the following files must be configured to be consistent with
the inventory being used and the chemical mechanism: the inventory table
(`INVTABLE`{.envar}), speciation profiles (`GSPRO`{.envar}), speciation
cross-reference (`GSREF`{.envar}), and the mobile processes file
(`MEPROC`{.envar}) when creating on-road mobile emissions with MOVES
through SMOKE.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s06s03.html)      [Up](ch02s06.html)     [Next](ch02s06s05.html)
  2.6.3. Modeling episodes     [Home](index.html)     2.6.5. Layer structures
  --------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
:::
