::: {.navheader}
2.9. Inventory import
:::

[Prev](ch02s08s05.html) 

Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts

 [Next](ch02s09s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_concepts_inventory_import}2.9. Inventory import {#inventory-import .title style="clear: both"}
--------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.9.1. Check the correctness and consistency of input file
formats](ch02s09.html#sect_concepts_check_inventory)]{.section}

[[2.9.2. Assign pollutant names to data input by code
numbers](ch02s09s02.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.3. Select pollutants from the input files for further SMOKE
processing](ch02s09s03.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.4. Check for duplicate records](ch02s09s04.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.5. Combine toxics and criteria
inventories](ch02s09s05.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.6. Sort the inventory](ch02s09s06.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.7. Aggregate or disaggregate toxics
emissions](ch02s09s07.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.8. Assign point-source locations to area
sources](ch02s09s08.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.9. Fill in and check point-source stack
parameters](ch02s09s09.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.10. Convert coordinates from UTM to
lat-lon](ch02s09s10.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.11. Optionally ensure that lat-lon coordinates are in the Western
Hemisphere](ch02s09s11.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.12. Convert units of emissions and
activities](ch02s09s12.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.13. Set the weekday averaging
approach](ch02s09s13.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.14. Assign country codes, years, and time
zones](ch02s09s14.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.15. Handle inventories that have data for multiple
years](ch02s09s15.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.16. Set the base year](ch02s09s16.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.17. Report results of import step](ch02s09s17.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.18. Import day-specific and hour-specific
data](ch02s09s18.html)]{.section}

[[2.9.19. Processing hour-specific CEM data](ch02s09s19.html)]{.section}
:::

The importing of emission inventory and related data is the first
processing step needed for any emissions processing effort. The
**Smkinven** program imports data for anthropogenic sources, and the
**Normbeis3** program imports BEIS3 land use data for biogenic sources.
In this section, we focus on the import of the anthropogenic inventories
using **Smkinven**. The biogenic import is further described in
[Section 2.17, "Biogenic
processing"](ch02s17.html "2.17. Biogenic processing").

**Smkinven** performs many types of activities during import of the
anthropogenic inventories. Though the primary purpose is reading the
data from ASCII formats and outputting and I/O API SMOKE intermediate
inventory, there are many other actions that need to be performed
duringthe inventory import stage of processing. These actions are the
following:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Check that the formats of the input files are correct and
    consistent, and ensure that all data can be read properly.

2.  Assign pollutant names to data input by code numbers.

3.  Select pollutants from the input files to keep for further SMOKE
    processing.

4.  When multiple files are provided, combine all annual and/or
    average-day data into aconsistent inventory. This includes checking
    for duplicates and possibly aborting, depending on program options
    set by the user.

5.  Combine toxics and criteria inventories, and eliminate duplicate
    mass using either an integrate or no-integrate approach.

6.  Sort the inventory records into the order expected by other SMOKE
    programs.

7.  Aggregate or disaggregate toxics emissions data as specified by user
    inputs.

8.  Assign point-source locations to area sources, when available.

9.  Fill in and check point-source stack parameters.

10. Convert stack locations from UTM to lat-lon.

11. Optionally ensure that lat-lon coordinates are in the Western
    Hemisphere.

12. Convert units of emissions and activities to the units used in the
    SMOKE intermediate inventory.

13. Set the weekday averaging approach.

14. Assign country codes and/or geographic codes
    (GEOCODE\_LEVEL\[1-4\]), years, and time zones.

15. Handle inventories that have data for multiple years.

16. Set the base year.

17. Report results of import including pollutant totals for toxics data
    and other information needed for quality assurance.

18. Import day-specific and hour-specific data, if available, and ensure
    that records in these files match inventory records provided in the
    annual or average-day inputs.
:::

In the following subsections, we describe what SMOKE does for each of
these activities.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_check_inventory}2.9.1. Check the correctness and consistency of input file formats {#check-the-correctness-and-consistency-of-input-file-formats .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

**Smkinven** can read the following ASCII formats for annual and
average-day inventory data:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**ORL format:**]{.bold} This set of input formats is used for
    inputting point, nonpoint, on-road, and nonroad HAP emissions
    inventories, also called toxics emission inventories. There is a
    different ORL format for nonpoint, point, nonroad mobile, and
    on-road mobile sources.

-   [**List format:**]{.bold} This is the input format used to provide
    multiple files to **Smkinven** in a single run. This format is
    simply an ASCII file that contains a list of other files.

-   [**List GRID format:**]{.bold} This is the input format used to
    provide multiple global gridded emission inventory files to
    **Smkinven** in a single run. This format is simply an ASCII file
    that contains a list of other files. To support input of multiple
    pre-gridded NetCDF files, the keyword \#LIST GRID in the header of
    this file will switch SMOKE into gridded inventory processing mode.
    This approach is described more in [Section 2.8.2.2, "Pre-gridded
    Emissions"](ch02s08s02.html#sect_concepts_pregridded_data "2.8.2.2. Pre-gridded Emissions")

-   [**Gridded I/O API format:**]{.bold} This format is a gridded I/O
    API file for allowing the import of pregridded data from the same
    modeling domain. This approach is described more in
    [Section 2.8.2.2, "Pre-gridded
    Emissions"](ch02s08s02.html#sect_concepts_pregridded_data "2.8.2.2. Pre-gridded Emissions").
:::

**Smkinven** ensures that all file formats provided to SMOKE are correct
and include the required data fields. The formats and their required
fields are provided in [Chapter 8, *SMOKE Input
Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files").
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s08s05.html)             [Up](ch02.html)                                           [Next](ch02s09s02.html)
  2.8.5. Point-source processing     [Home](index.html)     2.9.2. Assign pollutant names to data input by code numbers
  --------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------
:::
