::: {.navheader}
2.14.3. Creating the reactivity control matrix
:::

[Prev](ch02s14s02.html) 

2.14. Control processing

 [Next](ch02s14s04.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_create_reactivity}2.14.3. Creating the reactivity control matrix {#creating-the-reactivity-control-matrix .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Reactivity controls have been included in SMOKE to allow users to
examine what happens to the air quality modeling results when the
chemical mixture of the emissions is changed to reduce its ozone-forming
potential. Examining the effect of reactivity controls is known as
"[reactivity assessment]{.quote}". The implementation of this type of
control includes permitting users to reset the base-year emissions,
reset the SCC, and reset the chemical speciation profile. The controls
can be applied to all sources that match an SCC or a specific facility
or process within a facility.

Several issues are important when addressing emissions processing
requirements for reactivity assessments. Reactivity assessment involves
replacing one compound in the inventory by another compound. This
replacement can impact emission projections, the total magnitude of the
inventory pollutants, and the associated SCCs. The market penetration of
the replacement compound may vary in time and space, which affects the
future-year emissions. Also, the replacement compound may be needed in
much greater or much smaller amounts, thereby affecting the total
inventory emissions. Finally, if a different process is required in
order for a source to use the different compound, the SCC for that
source may change.

The scale of the reactivity assessment is important; it could be local,
statewide, or national. A local case could involve investigating
reactivity for one source. A statewide case could be implementing a
change in compound based on reactivity considerations for a State
Implementation Plan (SIP), and this would affect sources across the
state. A national case could involve an EPA investigation of the
formulation of nationally distributed consumer products.

In addition, exemptions from controls for certain sources must be
permitted as part of an emissions control strategy. These exemptions can
occur when a reactivity assessment determines that certain compounds
and/or processes do not significantly affect pollution formation.

To address these issues, SMOKE is able to target changes in a VOC for
specific classes of VOC emissions, and address the spatial and temporal
considerations implied by market penetration issues. Furthermore, when
replacement options are being investigated, the correct replacement
operations are facilitated by SMOKE. These operations include selecting
sources, changing underlying pollutant emissions, changing SCCs,
correctly projecting future-year emissions based in part on market
penetration issues, and appropriately speciating emissions for the new
compound.

For a single run of **Cntlmat**, reactivity controls can be applied to
only one pollutant, typically a VOC pollutant. Therefore, if you have
more than one VOC pollutant in the inventory (e.g., a toxics VOC and a
particulate pollutant), then separate reactivity matrices will need to
be created for each pollutant that receives reactivity controls, and
these controls will need to be applied in separate SMOKE runs (see
[Section 2.14.7, "Using **Smkmerge** to apply the multiplicative and/or
reactivity control
matrices"](ch02s14s07.html "2.14.7. Using Smkmerge to apply the multiplicative and/or reactivity control matrices")
for more information).
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s14s02.html)                                [Up](ch02s14.html)                                                   [Next](ch02s14s04.html)
  2.14.2. Creating the multiplicative control matrix     [Home](index.html)     2.14.4. Reporting on factors assigned to each source in the inventory
  ----------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::
