::: {.navheader}
2.14. Control processing
:::

[Prev](ch02s13s05.html) 

Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts

 [Next](ch02s14s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_concepts_control_processing}2.14. Control processing {#control-processing .title style="clear: both"}
-------------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.14.1. Assigning control factors from six control packets to the
sources](ch02s14.html#d0e6364)]{.section}

[[2.14.2. Creating the multiplicative control
matrix](ch02s14s02.html)]{.section}

[[2.14.3. Creating the reactivity control
matrix](ch02s14s03.html)]{.section}

[[2.14.4. Reporting on factors assigned to each source in the
inventory](ch02s14s04.html)]{.section}

[[2.14.5. Using **Grwinven** to apply the multiplicative control
matrices](ch02s14s05.html)]{.section}

[[2.14.6. Creating a controlled intermediate inventory
file](ch02s14s06.html)]{.section}

[[2.14.7. Using **Smkmerge** to apply the multiplicative and/or
reactivity control matrices](ch02s14s07.html)]{.section}
:::

The control processing operation applies control factors from a control
input file (`GCNTL`{.envar}) based on source characteristics in the
inventory. A control scenario involves changing the values of emissions
based on regulations affecting industrial activities or personal
behaviors. The resulting control matrix, created by the **Cntlmat**
program, takes the form of the matrix shown in [Figure 2.25,
"Relationship between inventory sources and growth
matrix"](ch02s13.html#fig_concepts_growth_processing "Figure 2.25. Relationship between inventory sources and growth matrix").
The control matrix depends only upon the source characteristics in the
SMOKE inventory and the set of controls chosen, so control processing
can therefore be decoupled from the rest of the processing steps. The
**Cntlmat** program performs control processing for SMOKE area, mobile,
and point sources; however, much more complex controls for on-road
mobile sources can also be implemented when using MOVES through SMOKE to
calculate emission factors and apply them to VMT.

The emissions control factors can be applied in addition to the
emissions growth factors (described in [Section 2.13, "Growth
processing"](ch02s13.html "2.13. Growth processing")), and the net
effect of this growth and control is called "[projection]{.quote}".
SMOKE control processing can create two types of control matrices during
a given run: a multiplicative control matrix and a reactivity control
matrix.

The **Cntlmat** program performs the following emissions processing
steps in creating the control matrices:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Assigning control factors from six control packets to the sources

2.  Creating the multiplicative control matrix

3.  Creating the reactivity control matrix

4.  Reporting on factors assigned to each source in the inventory
:::

The **Grwinven** program addresses the following control processing
steps:

::: {.orderedlist}
5.  Applying the multiplicative control matrices to the inventory

6.  Creating a controlled intermediate inventory file
:::

Finally, the **Smkmerge** program can be used to perform the following
control processing step:

::: {.orderedlist}
7.  Applying the multiplicative and/or reactivity control matrices to
    the inventory to create model-ready inputs
:::

The next seven subsections explain the concepts involved with these
processing steps in more detail.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e6364}2.14.1. Assigning control factors from six control packets to the sources {#assigning-control-factors-from-six-control-packets-to-the-sources .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

SMOKE provides six control packets with which users can control
emissions:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   /MACT/ contains MACT-based assignments for toxics inventories and
    can be used to apply general MACT controls to sources affected by
    MACT regulations. This packet contributes to the multiplicative
    control matrix.

-   /CONTROL/ contains settings for control efficiency, rule
    effectiveness, and rule penetration that can be applied by nearly
    any combination of source characteristics, even targeting a specific
    source. This packet contributes to the multiplicative control
    matrix. This packet cannot appear in the same input file with an
    /EMS\_CONTROL/ packet.

-   /EMS\_CONTROL/ contains settings for control efficiency, rule
    effectiveness, and rule penetration for both the base year
    [*and*]{.emphasis} a future year. It also contains a point-source
    conversion factor and an aggregated control factor that can override
    everything else in the packet. This packet contributes to the
    multiplicative control matrix. This packet cannot appear in the same
    input file with a /CONTROL/ packet, and it can be used for point
    sources only.

-   /CTG/ contains settings for control technology guideline (CTG)
    controls, MACT controls, and reasonably available control technology
    (RACT) controls. It contributes to the multiplicative control
    matrix.

-   /ALLOWABLE/ contains county-specific, SIC-specific, SCC-specific
    controls, caps, and replacement emissions. It contributes to the
    multiplicative control matrix.

-   /REACTIVITY/ contains settings needed for reactivity-based controls
    and its use results in the reactivity control matrix.
:::

[Section 6.2, "**Cntlmat**"](ch06s02.html "6.2. Cntlmat") describes the
**Cntlmat** program in more detail, including the cross-reference
hierarchy of these packets and how they relate to one another. All
packets can be included in a single **Cntlmat** run, with the exception
of the /CONTROL/ and /EMS\_CONTROL/ packets (either one or the other of
these can be included, but not both). In general, these packets can
assign control factors by state/county FIPS code, SCC, SIC, MACT,
pollutant, other plant-specific source characteristics, and various
combinations of these.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s13s05.html)                      [Up](ch02.html)                                  [Next](ch02s14s02.html)
  2.13.5. Creating a grown inventory file     [Home](index.html)     2.14.2. Creating the multiplicative control matrix
  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------
:::
