::: {.navheader}
2.3.9. Source types: major and section-112 area sources
:::

[Prev](ch02s03s08.html) 

2.3. Emission inventories

 [Next](ch02s03s10.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_section_112}2.3.9. Source types: major and section-112 area sources {#source-types-major-and-section-112-area-sources .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

For point and nonpoint toxics inventories, each source can be labeled as
"[major]{.quote}" or "[section-112 area]{.quote}" for input to SMOKE
(the following paragraph explains how the term "[area]{.quote}" can be
applied to a point-source inventory). The Clean Air Act defines major
sources as those stationary facilities that emit or have the potential
to emit 10 tons per year or more of any one toxic air pollutant or 25
tons per year or more of any combination of toxic air pollutants.
section-112 area sources include facilities that have air toxics
emissions below the major source threshold as defined in section 112 of
the Clean Air Act and thus emit less than 10 tons per year of a single
toxics air pollutant or less than 25 tons per year combined of multiple
toxics air pollutants. Another source type exists in principle for
nonpoint sources: the "[other]{.quote}" source type; an example of this
source type is wildfires. However, these source types are not labeled
differently from the section-112 area sources in the nonpoint toxics
inventories, so the "[other]{.quote}" source type has not been included
in SMOKE to date.

A note about the confusing use of "[area]{.quote}" terminology to
describe point sources: The designation of sources in the point
inventories as section-112 area sources has no relationship whatsoever
to SMOKE's area processing category. The point sources that are
section-112 area sources are still processed by SMOKE as point sources
using a lat-lon location and stack parameters.

In practice, all "[major]{.quote}" sources should appear only in the
point toxics inventory, but in some cases, "[major]{.quote}" sources
have shown up in the nonpoint inventory (specifically in inventory year
1996, in the July 2001 version of that inventory). Thus, the source type
designation is provided in both the point and nonpoint toxics input
formats.

The major and section-112 area designations are used when applying
MACT-based control factors. These control factors are assigned based on
a source's MACT code and may be applied to major sources only, to
section-112 area sources only, or to both types of sources regardless of
designation.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s03s08.html)                                [Up](ch02s03.html)                                     [Next](ch02s03s10.html)
  2.3.8. Maximum Achievable Control Technology codes     [Home](index.html)     2.3.10. Source types: nonroad and onroad mobile sources
  ----------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
:::
