::: {.navheader}
2.10.6. Monday, weekday, Saturday, Sunday processing
:::

[Prev](ch02s10s05.html) 

2.10. Temporal processing

 [Next](ch02s10s07.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_mwss_processing}2.10.6. Monday, weekday, Saturday, Sunday processing {#monday-weekday-saturday-sunday-processing .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The temporal variation of the days in a week is the same from week to
week within a month because SMOKE uses weekly profiles. Also, it is
common that the weekly profiles do not vary on Monday through Friday.
Consequently, it is often desirable for long (e.g., annual) simulations
to use a Monday-weekday-Saturday-Sunday (MWSS) approach. With this
approach, SMOKE computes emissions for a representative Monday, weekday,
Saturday, and Sunday within each month. The representative days cannot
be the first day of the month (to prevent effects from the previous
month from being included in the emissions data), a holiday (as set in
the `HOLIDAYS`{.envar} file), or the day after the holiday. Monday is
distinguished from other weekdays because in multi-time zone cases in
the Western Hemisphere with `OUTZONE`{.envar} set to 0 (i.e. GMT), a few
late-night Sunday hours are included in the hours at the start of the
Monday file. In addition, one must specifically process the holidays and
the day after holidays as separate runs for all holidays set by the
`HOLIDAYS`{.envar} file. During merging of emissions, the Monday,
weekday, Saturday, and Sunday files are reused to create model-ready
emissions for every day and hour needed. The holiday and day-after files
are used for the holiday and day-after dates only.

This approach relies heavily on scripting to select dates for each
month's representative days and to ensure that the days that are run are
consistent with the dates in the `HOLIDAYS`{.envar} file. Scripting is
also responsible for ensuring that the correct files are merged together
by **Smkmerge** to create the model-ready files for all days of the
episode. These scripting issues are described in more detail in
[Chapter 4, *How to Use
SMOKE*](ch04.html "Chapter 4. How to Use SMOKE").

There are some situations in which you cannot use the MWSS approach. In
particular, on-road processing with MOVES must be run for all days of
the episode, although some steps can be sped up by using the meteorology
averaging approach. Additionally, biogenic emissions processing obtains
all of its temporal variation from the meteorology data, and therefore
must be run for all days. Fortunately, biogenic emissions processing is
very fast compared to processing for other source categories.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s10s05.html)        [Up](ch02s10.html)                     [Next](ch02s10s07.html)
  2.10.5. Holiday processing     [Home](index.html)     2.10.7. Processing Non-sequential Dates
  ----------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------
:::
