::: {.navheader}
2.9.13. Set the weekday averaging approach
:::

[Prev](ch02s09s12.html) 

2.9. Inventory import

 [Next](ch02s09s14.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_set_weekday_approach}2.9.13. Set the weekday averaging approach {#set-the-weekday-averaging-approach .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

There are two approaches for processing weekly temporal profiles: weekly
normalization and weekday normalization. Although the actual
normalization happens during temporal allocation, **Smkinven** sets the
approach to use for each source. In the weekly approach, the
**Temporal** program normalizes the weekly temporal profiles over every
day of the week. This approach is appropriate for annual-total
inventories or average-day inventories. Weekday normalization normalizes
over just the weekdays (i.e., Monday through Friday) in the profile, or
if the profile indicates no emissions on weekdays, then over just the
weekend days in the profile. This approach is appropriate only for
average-weekday inventories. [Section 2.10, "Temporal
processing"](ch02s10.html "2.10. Temporal processing") describes the two
forms of weekly profile normalization in more detail.

The default normalization setting for ORL and FF10 formats in
**Smkinven** is weekly normalization. The default settings can be
changed using the `WKDAY_NORMALIZE`{.envar} option in the SMOKE run
scripts. When this option is set to Y, the sources will be set to
instruct **Temporal** to use weekday normalization, and when this option
is set to N, the sources will be set to cause weekly normalization.
**Smkinven** gives a warning when an approach is being used that is
inconsistent with the expected approach for the inventory format being
used.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s09s12.html)                               [Up](ch02s09.html)                                 [Next](ch02s09s14.html)
  2.9.12. Convert units of emissions and activities     [Home](index.html)     2.9.14. Assign country codes, years, and time zones
  ---------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------------
:::
