::: {.navheader}
2.8.5. Point-source processing
:::

[Prev](ch02s08s04.html) 

2.8. Area, biogenic, mobile, and point processing summaries

 [Next](ch02s09.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_point_source_processing}2.8.5. Point-source processing {#point-source-processing .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.8.5.1. Flexible source
definitions](ch02s08s05.html#d0e3756)]{.section}

[[2.8.5.2. Stack parameters](ch02s08s05.html#d0e3810)]{.section}

[[2.8.5.3. Day-specific and hour-specific
emissions](ch02s08s05.html#d0e3825)]{.section}

[[2.8.5.4. Different approaches for elevated sources for different
AQMs](ch02s08s05.html#d0e3842)]{.section}

[[2.8.5.5. Wild and prescribed fires point
sources](ch02s08s05.html#d0e3857)]{.section}
:::

Point-source emissions processing in SMOKE focuses on converting annual,
daily, or hourly emissions to hourly, gridded model-ready emissions of
the chemical species used by an AQM. Recall that by "[point
sources]{.quote}" in SMOKE we mean point sources in the usual sense plus
wildfires with/without precomputed plumes. SMOKE processing may be
performed either with or without growth and control of emissions. SMOKE
can process both criteria and toxics inventories for point sources and
combine consistent criteria and toxics inventories in one run (as
explained in more detail in [Section 2.9.5, "Combine toxics and criteria
inventories"](ch02s09s05.html "2.9.5. Combine toxics and criteria inventories")).

Point-source processing can be performed using a CMAQ-based approach or
a UAM-based approach, as previously described in [Section 2.5.3,
"Model-ready files"](ch02s05s03.html "2.5.3. Model-ready files"). The
processing steps for CMAQ base-year processing are shown in
[Figure 2.15, "Base case point-source processing steps for the
CMAQ-based
approach"](ch02s08s05.html#fig_concepts_point_base_CMAQ "Figure 2.15. Base case point-source processing steps for the CMAQ-based approach").
In [Figure 2.4, "Parallel approach to emissions
processing"](ch02s07.html#fig_concepts_parallel_approach "Figure 2.4. Parallel approach to emissions processing"),
we also included the major intermediate vectors and matrices; please
refer to that diagram for those details.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_point_base_CMAQ}

**Figure 2.15. Base case point-source processing steps for the
CMAQ-based approach**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Base case point-source processing steps for the CMAQ-based
approach](images\concepts\point_base_CMAQ_html.jpg)
:::
:::

The inventory import step reads the raw emissions data, screens them,
processes them, and converts the data to the SMOKE intermediate
inventory file (inventory vectors in [Figure 2.4, "Parallel approach to
emissions
processing"](ch02s07.html#fig_concepts_parallel_approach "Figure 2.4. Parallel approach to emissions processing")).
The import can optionally include day-specific and hour-specific data.
The emissions in the inventory file are subdivided to hourly emissions
during temporal allocation; assigned chemical speciation factors during
speciation, and assigned spatial allocation factors during gridding. The
plume-rise computation estimates vertical plume rise of emissions
sources and computes the fraction of emissions from the sources to go
into the model layers. The results of these steps are combined in a
merge step, which creates model-ready files for CMAQ.

Users may optionally choose to select specific sources to be elevated
sources and/or PinG sources. If this approach is taken, the selection
process can depend on daily-total emissions summed from the **Temporal**
output files. Hence, [Figure 2.15, "Base case point-source processing
steps for the CMAQ-based
approach"](ch02s08s05.html#fig_concepts_point_base_CMAQ "Figure 2.15. Base case point-source processing steps for the CMAQ-based approach")
shows that the elevated-source selection may optionally depend on the
output from the **Temporal** program. If elevated-source selection is
being included, the plume-rise computation uses that information to skip
the point sources that have not been selected as elevated. Thus, plume
rise is only computed for the elevated sources. The elevated-source
selection also provides its results to the merge step, which is where
the special PinG data files for CMAQ are created in addition to the 3-D
model-ready file.

[Figure 2.16, "Base case point-source processing steps for the UAM-based
approach"](ch02s08s05.html#fig_concepts_point_base_UAM "Figure 2.16. Base case point-source processing steps for the UAM-based approach")
describes base-case processing for the UAM-based approach. For this type
of modeling, the elevated-source selection step is required, and the
plume rise computation is not performed. Otherwise, the major processing
steps are the same as for the CMAQ-based approach.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_point_base_UAM}

**Figure 2.16. Base case point-source processing steps for the UAM-based
approach**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Base case point-source processing steps for the UAM-based
approach](images\concepts\point_base_UAM_html.jpg)
:::
:::

In [Figure 2.17, "Future- or past-year growth and control point-source
processing steps for the CMAQ-based
approach"](ch02s08s05.html#fig_concepts_point_growth_CMAQ "Figure 2.17. Future- or past-year growth and control point-source processing steps for the CMAQ-based approach"),
we show the point-source CMAQ-based processing steps for future- or
past-year processing. This processing is similar to the base-year
processing flow, except the growth and controls step in added to
calculate the growth and control matrices. The grow inventory step is
added to convert the inventory from the base year to a future or past
year. The control matrix can optionally be merged to apply control
factors to the future- or past-year emissions. The steps shown with
dotted lines represent steps that can be reused from the base-year
processing because they do not necessarily depend on any of the new
steps. However, if the elevated-source selection is to be performed
based on the grown emissions, then the elevated-source selection and
plume rise computation steps would need to be redone. Note that usually
the same elevated-source list is used in both the base- and future-year
modeling.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_point_growth_CMAQ}

**Figure 2.17. Future- or past-year growth and control point-source
processing steps for the CMAQ-based approach**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Future- or past-year growth and control point-source processing steps
for the CMAQ-based approach](images\concepts\point_growth_CMAQ_html.jpg)
:::
:::

Growth and control can also be used for UAM-based processing
([Figure 2.18, "Future- or past-year growth and control point-source
processing steps for the UAM-based
approach"](ch02s08s05.html#fig_concepts_point_growth_UAM "Figure 2.18. Future- or past-year growth and control point-source processing steps for the UAM-based approach")).
As with the other figures, the dotted lines indicate steps that may be
reused from the base-case processing. If the elevated-source selection
depends on the grown emissions then you will need to regenerate the
elevated-source list, though it is the usual practice in modeling to use
the same elevated-source list in both the base- and future-year
modeling. This allows the air quality modeling results to be more
comparable.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_point_growth_UAM}

**Figure 2.18. Future- or past-year growth and control point-source
processing steps for the UAM-based approach**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Future- or past-year growth and control point-source processing steps
for the UAM-based approach](images\concepts\point_growth_UAM_html.jpg)
:::
:::

As with area sources, you may apply many growth and control matrices at
the front end of processing. The area-source diagram for this approach
was provided as [Figure 2.10, "Alternative future- or past-year growth
and control area-processing
steps"](ch02s08s02.html#fig_concepts_area_projection "Figure 2.10. Alternative future- or past-year growth and control area-processing steps"),
and the point-source approach is quite similar, with the addition of the
elevated-source selection and plume rise computation steps.

In sections later in this chapter, we describe the SMOKE programs that
are needed for each of the processing steps just discussed and
additional details about what activities are accomplished during each
step. These sections are:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [Section 2.9, "Inventory
    import"](ch02s09.html "2.9. Inventory import")
-   [Section 2.10, "Temporal
    processing"](ch02s10.html "2.10. Temporal processing")
-   [Section 2.11, "Chemical speciation
    processing"](ch02s11.html "2.11. Chemical speciation processing")
-   [Section 2.12, "Spatial
    processing"](ch02s12.html "2.12. Spatial processing")
-   [Section 2.13, "Growth
    processing"](ch02s13.html "2.13. Growth processing")
-   [Section 2.14, "Control
    processing"](ch02s14.html "2.14. Control processing")
-   [Section 2.15, "Elevated-source
    processing"](ch02s15.html "2.15. Elevated-source processing")
-   [Section 2.18, "Creating model-ready
    emissions"](ch02s18.html "2.18. Creating model-ready emissions")
-   [Section 2.20, "Quality
    assurance"](ch02s20.html "2.20. Quality assurance")
:::

Point-source processing includes a number of additional features that
are not applicable for other SMOKE source categories:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Flexible source definitions
2.  Stack parameters
3.  Day- and hour-specific emissions
4.  Different approaches for elevated sources for different AQMs,
    including the use of PinG sources
5.  Elevated-source selection
6.  Wild and prescribed fires point sources
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e3756}2.8.5.1. Flexible source definitions {#flexible-source-definitions .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.8.5.1.1. Point definition header row in cross-reference
files](ch02s08s05.html#d0e3803)]{.section}
:::

Depending on the input format of the point-source emissions (e.g., FF10,
ORL), the set of characteristics that are used to uniquely identify a
point source can be different. For example, the ORL-formatted
inventories define a point source using a country, state, and county
code, an SCC, a plant identifier, a stack number, a point identifier,
and a segment number. The FF10 format, however, identifies a source
using a FIPS state/county code, a plant code, a unit ID, a segment ID,
and SCC. To better support the formats and be adaptable if new formats
are created in the future, SMOKE uses a flexible definition of point
sources. This definition consists of the following source
characteristics to uniquely define the sources:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Country, state, and county code

-   Plant ID (15 characters or less)

-   Characteristics 1 through 5 (each 15 characters or less)
:::

Depending on the input format, SMOKE assigns different variables from
the input format to the parts of the SMOKE point-source definition. The
assignments for the remaining characteristics are as follows:

[*ORL format:*]{.emphasis}

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Char 1: Point ID
-   Char 2: Stack ID
-   Char 3: Segment ID
-   Char 4: SCC
-   Char 5: unused
:::

[*FF10 format:*]{.emphasis}

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Char 1: Stack ID
-   Char 2: Unit ID
-   Char 3: Segment ID
-   Char 4: SCC
-   Char 5: unused
:::

The meaning of these source characteristics for a given inventory type
needs to be considered when cross-reference files are created, if
cross-reference entries other than state/county and SCC-specific entries
are provided.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

##### []{#d0e3803}2.8.5.1.1. Point definition header row in cross-reference files {#point-definition-header-row-in-cross-reference-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

As just described, SMOKE uses a flexible definition of point sources.
This definition may or may not include the SCC (although SCC is always
at least a source attribute). Cross-reference files for point sources
can contain source-specific records, and they usually use the SCC to
perform the needed assignments during emissions processing. For the
files to be self-describing, they use a header that indicates the number
of characteristics in addition to the plant ID that are being used in
the cross-reference file. This number needs to be consistent with the
number of point-source characteristics used in the inventory files. In
addition, the header indicates which, if any, of the point-source
characteristics is the SCC. This header starts with the characters
/POINT DEFN/, and the files that use it describe it as part of the file
format definition in [Chapter 8, *SMOKE Input
Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files").
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e3810}2.8.5.2. Stack parameters {#stack-parameters .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Several of the source attributes for point sources are stack parameters
- specifically, the stack height, stack diameter, and the stack flue gas
exit temperature, velocity, and flow rate. SMOKE can use hourly data for
the stack flue gas exit temperature, velocity, and flow rate when using
the CMAQ-based approach to modeling with SMOKE computing hourly plume
rise. The hourly stack parameters cannot be used when modeling using a
UAM-based elevated-point-source approach.

During the **Smkinven** program's import of the stack parameters from
the annual or average-day inventory file (i.e., not the hourly stack
parameters), SMOKE needs to read or assign stack parameters for all
point sources. [Section 2.9.9, "Fill in and check point-source stack
parameters"](ch02s09s09.html "2.9.9. Fill in and check point-source stack parameters")
explains in greater detail what the **Smkinven** program does with stack
parameters. The hourly stack parameters are read in without modification
or adjustment.
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e3825}2.8.5.3. Day-specific and hour-specific emissions {#day-specific-and-hour-specific-emissions .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Emissions from point sources are sometimes available as day- or
hour-specific values. **Smkinven** can import the day- and hour-specific
data, and it can also convert the hour-specific data to hour-specific
temporal profiles. When these data are available, the **Temporal**
program overrides the annual or daily emissions with the most specific
data available. If day-specific data are available, **Temporal** uses
them to overwrite the annual or average-day emissions during the time
periods that these data are available. If hour-specific data are
available, **Temporal** uses them to overwrite the annual, average-day
emissions, or day-specific emissions data.
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e3842}2.8.5.4. Different approaches for elevated sources for different AQMs {#different-approaches-for-elevated-sources-for-different-aqms .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

As introduced in [Section 2.5.3, "Model-ready
files"](ch02s05s03.html "2.5.3. Model-ready files"), there are two
different major approaches for creating emissions inputs to AQMs: the
CMAQ-based approach and the UAM-based approach. The two approaches
differ only on how point sources are being treated. In the CMAQ-based
approach, SMOKE calculates the plume rise using an algorithm based on a
Briggs plume rise formulation. SMOKE then includes the vertical
distribution of the point-source emissions in the 3-D model-ready file
for CMAQ. For the CMAQ model only, SMOKE can also create two special
PinG files: one to identify the sources, their locations, and their
stack parameters, and the other to provide the hour-specific emissions
for just these sources. In the UAM-based approach, SMOKE creates a
special elevated-point-source file that both identifies the elevated and
PinG sources and includes the hourly emissions values for those sources.

PinG sources are those sources that will be treated in greater detail by
the AQM. In simple terms, the AQMs preprocess the chemistry of the plume
emissions before those emissions are provided to the AQM grid cells and
layers. The intent of the PinG approach is to provide more accurate
modeling at and around very large point sources.

[Section 2.15, "Elevated-source
processing"](ch02s15.html "2.15. Elevated-source processing") describes
in greater detail the steps taken by SMOKE in the layer fraction
processing using a Briggs formulation and the elevated and PinG source
selection.
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e3857}2.8.5.5. Wild and prescribed fires point sources {#wild-and-prescribed-fires-point-sources .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

You may also either provide either precomputed point-source plume rise
to SMOKE or internally compute plume rise using acres burned and fuel
loading of fires with both the CMAQ-based and UAM-based approaches to
modeling point sources. Precomputed plume rise point sources are called
explicit plume sources. This capability was implemented for modeling
wildfire sources as point sources in SMOKE using plume rise computed
with a different approach from the Briggs-based approach used for
stack-based plumes ([Section 4.4.17, "Plume Rise Calculation for
Fires"](ch04s04s17.html "4.4.17. Plume Rise Calculation for Fires")).
The input data for this approach are the fraction of emissions in layer
1, the bottom of the plume, and the top of the plume. SMOKE distributes
the emissions across the layers by weighting the emissions by the
pressure difference in each layer over the total pressure difference
between the top and bottom of the plume.

For the UAM-based modeling approach, the file format does not readily
allow you to provide precomputed plume rise; in fact, the entire premise
of the format is that the AQM will compute the plume rise. To enable you
to provide precomputed rise for the UAM-based modeling approach, the
**Smkmerge** program creates an ASCII elevated-point-source file with an
imaginary stack for each layer of each source (e.g., each wildfire). The
stack parameters of the imaginary stack are set to values that will
ensure a zero plume rise will be computed for the stack, and the x-y
location of the stacks are the same for all imaginary stacks
representing the same source. The emissions associated with the
imaginary stacks are provided based on the emissions values that are to
be entered in each layer for the source. The emissions for layer 1 are
written in the point-source file to the imaginary stack associated with
layer 1, and the same is done for all of the other layers. SMOKE uses a
zero value for the imaginary stack when the emissions from a given
source are not in a layer for an hour or when the source stops (e.g.,
once a wildfire ends). While not particularly elegant, this approach
permits providing precomputed plume rise to the UAM-based models without
having to change those models.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s08s04.html)                         [Up](ch02s08.html)      [Next](ch02s09.html)
  2.8.4. Mobile-source processing using MOVES     [Home](index.html)     2.9. Inventory import
  ---------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------
:::
