::: {.navheader}
2.10.7. Processing Non-sequential Dates
:::

[Prev](ch02s10s06.html) 

2.10. Temporal processing

 [Next](ch02s10s08.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_non_seq_processing}2.10.7. Processing Non-sequential Dates {#processing-non-sequential-dates .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Previously, **Temporal** processed a single continuous time period
during each execution of the program producing one output file.
Typically, only representative Monday, weekday, Saturday and Sunday,
plus any holidays are processed for a single month. This type of
processing can require complex scripting and **Temporal** would need to
be run several times. See [Section 4.4.13.3, "Changing the
episode"](ch04s04s13.html#sect_scripts_change_episode "4.4.13.3. Changing the episode"),
[Section 4.4.13.4, "Changing the dates, times, and duration of
model-ready SMOKE emissions
files"](ch04s04s13.html#sect_scripts_duration_output "4.4.13.4. Changing the dates, times, and duration of model-ready SMOKE emissions files")
and [Section 4.4.13.5, "Setting non-sequential processing
dates"](ch04s04s13.html#sect_scripts_non_seq_dates "4.4.13.5. Setting non-sequential processing dates").

SMOKE now provides the capability for optionally setting non-sequential
date processing during a single execution of **Temporal** using a new
input file `PROCDATES`{.envar} to indicate a list of dates which
**Temporal** should process. The format for `PROCDATES`{.envar} is
described in [Section 8.3.4, "`PROCDATES`{.envar}: Procdates date
list"](ch08s03s04.html "8.3.4. PROCDATES: Procdates date list"). The
format allows for blank lines, comment lines (any lines that start with
a pound sign, and trailing comments (any characters after an exclamation
point).

`G_TSTEP`{.envar} will be used to set the time step for all time
periods. The output data for each time period will be written to an
endividual file.

An example of `PROCDATES`{.envar} file is shown below. In this case, we
are processing the first day of each month in 2005. Twelve output files
will be produced. Each file will contain 25 time steps.

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   \# First day of each month
-   20050101 0 250000 ! January
-   20050201 0 250000 ! February
-   20050301 0 250000 ! March
-   20050401 0 250000 ! April
-   20050501 0 250000 ! May
-   20050601 0 250000 ! June
-   20050701 0 250000 ! July
-   20050801 0 250000 ! August
-   20050901 0 250000 ! September
-   20051001 0 250000 ! October
-   20051101 0 250000 ! November
-   20051201 0 250000 ! December
:::

**Temporal** procduces two output files `[A|M|P]TMP`{.envar} and
`[A|M|P]TSUP`{.envar}. Since **Temporal** will need to dynamically
create names for the output files, we will use two new environment
variables `[A|M|P]TMPNAME`{.envar} and `[A|M|P]TSUPNAME`{.envar} to set
the directory and file prefix used to name the output files. The files
will be named using the starting date of each time period. For example,
if `ATMPNAME`{.envar} is set to /data/ntmp.nctox., (note the period at
the end of the file string) the `ATMP`{.envar} file for a given time
period will be put in the `STATIC`{.envar} directory and named
\"ntmp.nctox.\<start date\>.ncf\".
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s10s06.html)                                  [Up](ch02s10.html)                     [Next](ch02s10s08.html)
  2.10.6. Monday, weekday, Saturday, Sunday processing     [Home](index.html)     2.10.8. Creating the intermediate files
  ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------
:::
