::: {.navheader}
2.14.4. Reporting on factors assigned to each source in the inventory
:::

[Prev](ch02s14s03.html) 

2.14. Control processing

 [Next](ch02s14s05.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e6444}2.14.4. Reporting on factors assigned to each source in the inventory {#reporting-on-factors-assigned-to-each-source-in-the-inventory .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

In addition to assigning the control factors, **Cntlmat** also creates
reports detailing the factors applied to each source. These reports
include the source characteristics and the factors assigned to the
sources. The reports are:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**`ACREP`{.envar}, `MCREP`{.envar}, or `PCREP`{.envar}:**]{.bold}
    For area and mobile sources, this report includes emissions before
    and after all multiplicative controls have been applied by state,
    county, and SCC. For point sources, the report includes emissions
    before and after all multiplicative controls by facility.

-   [**`AREACREP`{.envar}, `MREACREP`{.envar}, or
    `PREACREP`{.envar}:**]{.bold} For pollutants controlled with
    reactivity controls (usually VOC), this report includes source
    number, base-year emissions, replacement base-year emissions,
    projection factor, future-year SCC, future-year speciation profile
    number, and market penetration rate of reactivity control. This
    report is the only reactivity report that can be generated by SMOKE
    since the **Smkreport** program cannot yet import and apply the
    reactivity matrix to generate reports.

-   [**`ACSUMREP`{.envar}, `MCSUMREP`{.envar}, or
    `PCSUMREP`{.envar}:**]{.bold} For each source, this report includes
    the specific multiplicative controls that were applied to each
    source. It includes the emissions before and after each control, as
    well as the control factor that was applied. The control packet from
    which each control came is included in the report. The reactivity
    controls are not included in this report.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s14s03.html)                            [Up](ch02s14.html)                                                     [Next](ch02s14s05.html)
  2.14.3. Creating the reactivity control matrix     [Home](index.html)     2.14.5. Using **Grwinven** to apply the multiplicative control matrices
  ------------------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::
