::: {.navheader}
2.5.3. Model-ready files
:::

[Prev](ch02s05s02.html) 

2.5. Input and output file types

 [Next](ch02s06.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_model_ready_files}2.5.3. Model-ready files {#model-ready-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

SMOKE supports two major approaches for formatting its output files that
are used as inputs to air quality models (i.e., model-ready files): the
CMAQ/Models-3 approach and the UAM-based approach. The CMAQ/Models-3
approach is used for the CMAQ model, and the UAM-based approach is used
for the UAM models, and CAM~X~.

The CMAQ/Models-3 approach uses one required 3-D I/O API file that
contains the gridded, hourly, speciated, and vertically distributed
emissions. In SMOKE, it is called the `EGTS3D_L`{.envar} file. To create
the 3-D model-ready emissions file, SMOKE computes plume rise for some
or all point sources. For CMAQ, two additional optional files can be
provided for plume-in-grid (PinG) processing. The first must contain
locations and stack parameters for PinG sources and is called the
`STACK_GROUPS`{.envar} file. The second must contain the hourly,
speciated emissions for the same PinG sources in a file called the
`PINGTS_L`{.envar} file.

The UAM-based approach has two required files: (1) a 2-D emissions
Fortran binary file with all sources other than point sources and all
low-level point sources, and (2) an elevated-point-source Fortran binary
file. The SMOKE program **Smk2emis** can create the 2-D emissions
Fortran binary file (called the `UAM_EGTS`{.envar} file) by converting a
2-D `EGTS_L`{.envar} file from an I/O API format. To obtain the
elevated-point-source Fortran binary file, the SMOKE program
**Smkmerge** can create an ASCII elevated-point-source file, which can
then be converted to the required binary format using the UAM
preprocessor [Ptsrce](http://www.remsad.com/ptsrce.htm).
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s05s02.html)     [Up](ch02s05.html)         [Next](ch02s06.html)
  2.5.2. I/O API files        [Home](index.html)     2.6. Modeling parameters
  -------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
:::
