::: {.navheader}
2.9.2. Assign pollutant names to data input by code numbers
:::

[Prev](ch02s09.html) 

2.9. Inventory import

 [Next](ch02s09s03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_assign_pollutant_names}2.9.2. Assign pollutant names to data input by code numbers {#assign-pollutant-names-to-data-input-by-code-numbers .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The ORL format use code numbers (usually Chemical Abstracts Service
\[CAS\] numbers) to distinguish which chemical compound or inventory
pollutant is provided on each line of the file. **Smkinven** matches
these numbers with the CAS numbers from an inventory table
(`INVTABLE`{.envar}) file, described in [Section 8.10.4,
"`INVTABLE`{.envar}: Inventory
table"](ch08s10s04.html "8.10.4. INVTABLE: Inventory table"). The CAS
number does not necessarily have to be a valid CAS number; it can be any
number as long as there is a match between the numbers in the ORL file
and the inventory table. The inventory table provides the inventory data
names, such as the pollutant names that SMOKE uses in the remaining
processing steps. Note that the SMOKE inventory pollutants may not be
identical to the pollutants in the inventory fed to SMOKE because of the
aggregation/disaggregation that is performed by **Smkinven** (see
[Section 2.9.7, "Aggregate or disaggregate toxics
emissions"](ch02s09s07.html "2.9.7. Aggregate or disaggregate toxics emissions")
for more information).

For toxics processing, if multiple inventory data names apply for the
same CAS number, the Factor column of `INVTABLE`{.envar} will contain
the split factor used by **Smkinven** to disaggregate the emissions from
that CAS number to multiple inventory data values. If multiple CAS
numbers apply for the same pollutant name, then **Smkinven** will sum
these emissions, but will not report duplicate records unless there are
indeed duplicates in the inventory file. This is described more fully in
[Section 2.9.7, "Aggregate or disaggregate toxics
emissions"](ch02s09s07.html "2.9.7. Aggregate or disaggregate toxics emissions").
Duplicate reporting is described more in [Section 2.9.4, "Check for
duplicate
records"](ch02s09s04.html "2.9.4. Check for duplicate records").

The use of the inventory data name as the unique pollutant identifier in
SMOKE differs from the approach of EMS-HAP, in which the SAROAD code is
the unique identifier for the pollutants to be modeled. Because we
anticipated that some toxics pollutants that do not have unique SAROAD
codes (e.g., divalent particulate mercury) would need to be modeled
explicitly, we did not want to take this approach. If we had, the user
would have been required to create fake and unique SAROAD codes to be
able to model these emissions explicitly.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------ -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s09.html)      [Up](ch02s09.html)                                                        [Next](ch02s09s03.html)
  2.9. Inventory import     [Home](index.html)     2.9.3. Select pollutants from the input files for further SMOKE processing
  ------------------------ -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::
