::: {.navheader}
2.8.3. Biogenic-source processing
:::

[Prev](ch02s08s02.html) 

2.8. Area, biogenic, mobile, and point processing summaries

 [Next](ch02s08s04.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_biogenic_source_processing}2.8.3. Biogenic-source processing {#biogenic-source-processing .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

SMOKE biogenic emissions modeling can be accomplished with the Biogenic
Emissions Inventory System, version 3 (BEIS3) approach using the
processing scheme ([Figure 2.11, "Biogenic-source processing steps and
intermediate
files"](ch02s08s03.html#fig_concepts_biogenic_base "Figure 2.11. Biogenic-source processing steps and intermediate files")).
The raw land use inventory data are imported and output as normalized
emissions. Meteorology adjustments are then applied to the normalized
emissions to create hourly model-ready emissions estimates.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_biogenic_base}

**Figure 2.11. Biogenic-source processing steps and intermediate files**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Biogenic-source processing steps and intermediate
files](images\concepts\biogenic_base_html.jpg)
:::
:::

The land use import can start with gridded BELD3 or BELD4 land use data
and uses BEIS3 summer and winter emission factors. In [Section 2.17,
"Biogenic processing"](ch02s17.html "2.17. Biogenic processing"), we
provide additional details about the SMOKE programs used for BEIS3
processing and its capabilities.

A variation can be run on the processing steps shown in [Figure 2.11,
"Biogenic-source processing steps and intermediate
files"](ch02s08s03.html#fig_concepts_biogenic_base "Figure 2.11. Biogenic-source processing steps and intermediate files")
(see [Figure 2.12, "Biogenic-source processing steps and intermediate
files using both winter and summer emission
factors"](ch02s08s03.html#fig_concepts_biogenic_seasons "Figure 2.12. Biogenic-source processing steps and intermediate files using both winter and summer emission factors")).
In this variation, some grid cells use summer emission factors and some
use winter emission factors. This is useful during the changes of
seasons. Based on guidance from EPA, the summer emissions factors should
be used for time periods after the last frost of the spring until the
first frost of the fall, and winter emission factors should be used at
other times of the year. To make such assignments by grid cell, the
SMOKE utility **Metscan** analyzes the meteorology data for the entire
year (or the period of interest) to establish which days each grid cell
should use winter and summer emission factors. **Metscan** creates a
winter/summer switch file that indicates the appropriate season for each
grid cell for each day. More information on **Metscan** is available in
[Section 5.3.11, "**Metscan**"](ch05s03s11.html "5.3.11. Metscan"). The
results of the meteorology analysis can then be used in the
[Figure 2.12, "Biogenic-source processing steps and intermediate files
using both winter and summer emission
factors"](ch02s08s03.html#fig_concepts_biogenic_seasons "Figure 2.12. Biogenic-source processing steps and intermediate files using both winter and summer emission factors")
processing approach, in which both the summer and winter normalized
emissions are provided to the meteorology adjustments step, along with
the winter/summer switch file. The resulting model-ready emissions data
have used the winter emission factors for all grid cells of the domain
that have experienced the first freeze date of the year but not the last
(within a calendar year, this is the time periods January through March
and November through December in many regions), and the summer emission
factors for all grid cells between the last and first freeze dates.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_biogenic_seasons}

**Figure 2.12. Biogenic-source processing steps and intermediate files
using both winter and summer emission factors**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Biogenic-source processing steps and intermediate files using both
winter and summer emission
factors](images\concepts\biogenic_seasons_html.jpg)
:::
:::

In [Section 2.17, "Biogenic
processing"](ch02s17.html "2.17. Biogenic processing") we describe the
SMOKE programs that are needed for each of these processing types for
BEIS3 processing, and additional details about what activities are
accomplished during each step.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s08s02.html)           [Up](ch02s08.html)                         [Next](ch02s08s04.html)
  2.8.2. Area-source processing     [Home](index.html)     2.8.4. Mobile-source processing using MOVES
  -------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------
:::
