::: {.navheader}
2.17. Biogenic processing
:::

[Prev](ch02s16s03.html) 

Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts

 [Next](ch02s18.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_concepts_biogenic_processing}2.17. Biogenic processing {#biogenic-processing .title style="clear: both"}
---------------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.17.1. BEIS3 processing](ch02s17.html#d0e7476)]{.section}
:::

The SMOKE system uses a more advanced emissions modeling approach for
biogenic processing than it uses for the other source types. For
biogenic emissions, the temporal processing is a true simulation model
driven by ambient meteorology and other data. SMOKE currently supports
two methods for computing biogenic land use: BEIS2 and BEIS3. The
overall processing performed by both these models is quite different
from the processing done for anthropogenic source categories. BEIS2 and
BEIS3 start with spatial allocation of land use data as the first
processing step (which is the same as importing the raw inventory data
for anthropogenic sources). They next compute normalized emissions for
each grid cell and land use category. The final step is adjusting the
normalized emissions based on gridded, hourly meteorology data and
assigning the chemical species to output a model-ready biogenic
emissions file. The following two subsections provide more detail about
the two biogenic models in SMOKE and give references to additional
detail elsewhere.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e7476}2.17.1. BEIS3 processing {#beis3-processing .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The concepts in BEIS3 are similar to those in BEIS2, except the program
**Normbeis3** (instead of **Rawbio**) reads gridded land use data from
three files in I/O API input format (`BELD3_A`{.envar},
`BELD3_B`{.envar}, and `BELD3_TOT`{.envar}). Most users rely on the
BELD3 database to generate these gridded land use files, but other land
use databases may be used, provided the vegetation types and file
formats are consistent with the `BELD3_A`{.envar}, `BELD3_B`{.envar},
and `BELD3_TOT`{.envar} files. This database consists of high-resolution
(1-km horizontal resolution) land use data for 230 land use types.
**Normbeis3** creates normalized biogenic emissions for both winter and
summer. The **Tmpbeis3** program reads the MCIP meteorology data and
makes these adjustments; these include the effects of temperature and
solar radiation. The winter emission factors are to be used during the
\"winter\" period, which is defined as being after the first date of
freezing ground temperature and before the last date of freezing ground
temperature. The SMOKE **Metscan** program can determine this time
period and create a gridded file that indicates whether each grid cell
is in a winter or summer period for each day of the year. Using this
file, which is optional, will cause **Tmpbeis3** to read and use both
the winter and summer normalized emissions files from **Normbeis3**.
Whether the winter or summer normalized emissions are used for a given
grid cell and hour is set by the output from the **Metscan** program.
Users can define the chemical species that are output from **Tmpbeis3**
using the speciation profile file, `GSPRO`{.envar}. In this file, you
can set an environment variable (`BIOG_SPRO`{.envar}) that indicates
which speciation profile code should be used for biogenic emissions.
Note that this `GSPRO`{.envar} file is different than the one used for
BEIS2. More information on **Normbeis3** and **Tmpbeis3** is provided in
[Section 6.12, "**Normbeis3**"](ch06s12.html "6.12. Normbeis3") and
[Section 6.17, "**Tmpbeis3**"](ch06s17.html "6.17. Tmpbeis3").
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s16s03.html)             [Up](ch02.html)                       [Next](ch02s18.html)
  2.16.3. SMOKE Model Processing     [Home](index.html)     2.18. Creating model-ready emissions
  --------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------
:::
