::: {.navheader}
2.10.5. Holiday processing
:::

[Prev](ch02s10s04.html) 

2.10. Temporal processing

 [Next](ch02s10s06.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_holiday_processing}2.10.5. Holiday processing {#holiday-processing .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Holidays that fall on weekdays can have different activity patterns than
regular weekdays because commercial and commuting activities are
altered. **Temporal** uses the `HOLIDAYS`{.envar} file to identify which
user-defined dates should be processed as holidays and to determine
which day of the week (Saturday or Sunday) to use to model the holiday.
Usually, holidays are modeled as if they were a Sunday; this attempts to
account for things like plants being closed and traffic patterns being
different. Of course, you can also set up specific temporal profile
inputs for a specific holiday and model that day separately, but this is
not automated in SMOKE. Users therefore simply pick Saturday or Sunday
as an alternative date treatment in the hope that it will somewhat
better represent the emissions than using a weekday.

Holidays processing happens automatically if you are running the
**Temporal** program for every day of your episode. If you are using the
Monday-weekday-Saturday-Sunday approach described in [Section 2.10.6,
"Monday, weekday, Saturday, Sunday
processing"](ch02s10s06.html "2.10.6. Monday, weekday, Saturday, Sunday processing"),
then additional scripting steps must be taken to ensure that the
holidays are modeled properly. In particular, for inventories that span
multiple time zones and/or when the output time zone is not the same as
at least one time zone in the inventory, the scripts must be configured
to model the holiday and the next day, so that the final hours in the
holiday that are west of the output time zone will be included in the
next day's file.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s10s04.html)           [Up](ch02s10.html)                                  [Next](ch02s10s06.html)
  2.10.4. Time zone adjustments     [Home](index.html)     2.10.6. Monday, weekday, Saturday, Sunday processing
  -------------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------------------------
:::
