::: {.navheader}
2.8. Area, biogenic, mobile, and point processing summaries
:::

[Prev](ch02s07.html) 

Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts

 [Next](ch02s08s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_concepts_processing_summaries}2.8. Area, biogenic, mobile, and point processing summaries {#area-biogenic-mobile-and-point-processing-summaries .title style="clear: both"}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.8.1. Summary of SMOKE processing
categories](ch02s08.html#sect_concepts_summary_source_processing)]{.section}

[[2.8.2. Area-source processing](ch02s08s02.html)]{.section}

[[2.8.3. Biogenic-source processing](ch02s08s03.html)]{.section}

[[2.8.4. Mobile-source processing using
MOVES](ch02s08s04.html)]{.section}

[[2.8.5. Point-source processing](ch02s08s05.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_summary_source_processing}2.8.1. Summary of SMOKE processing categories {#summary-of-smoke-processing-categories .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Each SMOKE processing category is defined by its source
[*characteristics*]{.emphasis}, which correspond to the identifiers used
in creating the emission inventory (e.g., state/county FIPS code and
SCC). The processing categories also have source
[*attributes*]{.emphasis}, which are the other useful data in the
emission inventories that SMOKE uses; examples are point-source flue gas
exit height and temperature. Source characteristics
[*define*]{.emphasis} the sources as area, biogenic, mobile, or point
sources and also distinguish one source in the inventory from another.
Source attributes are additional data about the source that do not
contribute to the source's uniqueness in SMOKE. We have previously
described in [Section 2.3.1, "Inventory data
types"](ch02s03.html#sect_concepts_inv_data_types "2.3.1. Inventory data types")
the data types and the data attributes that are contained in the
inventories that SMOKE uses. In the subsections below, we summarize the
source characteristics of area, biogenics, mobile, and point sources.
Please refer to [Table 2.1, "Inventory source categories and SMOKE
processing capabilities and
categories"](ch02s03s02.html#tbl_concepts_inv_categories "Table 2.1. Inventory source categories and SMOKE processing capabilities and categories")
for more information about how SMOKE processing categories map to the
inventory source categories.

In SMOKE, each processing category is defined by source characteristics
as follows:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**Area sources**]{.bold} are defined by (1) [country, state, and
    county
    codes](ch02s03s04.html "2.3.4. Country, state, and county codes"), (2)
    [SCCs](ch02s03s05.html "2.3.5. Source Classification Codes"),
    and (3) optionally, grid cell.

-   [**Biogenic sources**]{.bold} are defined differently depending on
    the type of processing you are using. They can be defined either
    by (1) [country, state, and county
    codes](ch02s03s04.html "2.3.4. Country, state, and county codes")
    and (2) land use code, or by (1) grid cell and (2) land use code.

-   [**Mobile sources**]{.bold} are defined by (1) [country, state, and
    county
    codes](ch02s03s04.html "2.3.4. Country, state, and county codes"), (2)
    [SCCs](ch02s03s05.html "2.3.5. Source Classification Codes"),
    and (3) optionally link codes.

-   [**Point sources**]{.bold} are defined by (1) [country, state, and
    county
    codes](ch02s03s04.html "2.3.4. Country, state, and county codes"), (2)
    plant/facility codes, and (3) characteristics 1 through 5, one of
    which must be the
    [SCC](ch02s03s05.html "2.3.5. Source Classification Codes").
:::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s07.html)                                   [Up](ch02.html)             [Next](ch02s08s02.html)
  2.7. Sparse matrix approach to emissions modeling     [Home](index.html)     2.8.2. Area-source processing
  ---------------------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------
:::
