::: {.navheader}
2.6.2. Base year and past/future years
:::

[Prev](ch02s06.html) 

2.6. Modeling parameters

 [Next](ch02s06s03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e1793}2.6.2. Base year and past/future years {#base-year-and-pastfuture-years .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

For any modeling effort, the emissions base year and future year are key
modeling parameters needed for performing emissions processing. The base
year is usually the year for which the air quality model is being run in
order to compare modeling results with observed air quality data. Such
comparisons allow modelers to tune the emissions data and air quality
model, to ensure that the AQM is performing adequately during the
modeling episode.

The base year is most often a year for which an emission inventory is
available. This is usually the same year for which the meteorology model
has been run to prepare input to SMOKE and an AQM and for which air
quality observations are available. Of course there are exceptions to
this principle, but generally that is how one establishes a base year.

Several different files and settings are used to set the base year in
SMOKE, each of which should be consistent with each other for ideal
results.

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   The `YEAR`{.envar} setting in the SMOKE Assigns file is the
    reference point used by the scripts to determine the base year and
    set the names of various year-specific input files.

-   The episode and run settings (see [Section 2.6.3, "Modeling
    episodes"](ch02s06s03.html "2.6.3. Modeling episodes")) determine
    the base year that will be used in the model-ready output files.
    This base year must match the `YEAR`{.envar} setting so that the
    correct input files are used.

-   The input emissions files should ideally contain data for the same
    base year, and the \#YEAR header setting in those files should be
    consistent with the `YEAR`{.envar} environment variable in the
    Assigns file. If the years in the annual inventory files are not
    consistent with each other, SMOKE will determine the year used by
    the most sources and set that as the base year. If day-specific or
    hour-specific data are used, all years in those files must be
    consistent with the base year of the annual emissions.

-   The MOVES input data, if they are being used, should also be
    consistent with the base year. SMOKE is capable of running MOVES
    with inputs from a different year, but certain inputs may not be
    correct.

-   Finally, the dates in the I/O API meteorology data from the
    Meteorology-Chemistry Interface Processor (MCIP) must be consistent
    with both the base year and the episode and run settings.
:::

The future (or past) year is a chosen year in the future (or past) for
which a modeler needs to run an air quality model; for example, to model
the future effects of particular emission control strategies. To model a
future year with SMOKE, you must have either an inventory that has been
computed for a future year, or growth and control factors to project the
base-year inventory to the future year. The settings and files that must
be considered are as follows:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   The setting `FYEAR`{.envar} is set in the run script and is used by
    the script to automatically assign the name of the **Cntlmat** input
    file `GCNTL`{.envar}, which contains the growth factors.
    `FYEAR`{.envar} must be set to the future year even if a future-year
    inventory is not being created because it has already been provided
    to you.

-   If you already have a future-year inventory and so do not need to
    use SMOKE to project one from the base year inventory, then the
    emissions data year must match the future year, and the \#YEAR
    header in the inventory file must match that year as well. In this
    case, the `SMK_BASEYR_OVERRIDE`{.envar} setting must also be used to
    indicate what the base year is (which will be the same as the year
    of the meteorology data).

-   The MOVES input data, if they are being used, must also include the
    correct settings for the future year of interest.

-   The episode and run settings, meteorology files, and day- or
    hour-specific inventories should [*not*]{.emphasis} match the future
    year, but rather should use the base-year episode dates.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s06.html)         [Up](ch02s06.html)      [Next](ch02s06s03.html)
  2.6. Modeling parameters     [Home](index.html)     2.6.3. Modeling episodes
  --------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
:::
