::: {.navheader}
2.3.3. Inventory file formats
:::

[Prev](ch02s03s02.html) 

2.3. Emission inventories

 [Next](ch02s03s04.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_inv_file_formats}2.3.3. Inventory file formats {#inventory-file-formats .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

SMOKE supports a variety of inventory formats for criteria, particulate,
toxics, and activity data inventories, which are described in detail in
[Section 8.2, "Inventory Files"](ch08s02.html "8.2. Inventory Files").
Here, we provide a brief introduction to these formats, which will be
helpful as you read more about SMOKE in the remainder of this chapter
and the chapters before [Chapter 8, *SMOKE Input
Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files"). All formats described
here are text files. To convert your data to these formats, the best
approach is to use a database or spreadsheet program to reformat and
output the data in the requested format. There is not a standard
format-conversion method that comes with SMOKE.

In the following paragraphs, we describe the formats available for
nonpoint/stationary area, nonroad mobile, on-road mobile, point, and
point-wildfire sources.

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**Nonpoint/stationary area sources:**]{.bold} SMOKE supports two
    formats for nonpoint/stationary area sources. The ORL and FF10 (Flat
    File 10) format are list directed (comma or semicolon delimited) and
    these file formats may be used to represent many different sources.
    The header of the file indicates what source data are in the file.

-   [**Nonroad mobile sources:**]{.bold} There are three available
    inventory formats for nonroad mobile sources. The FF10 (Flat
    File 10) format is list directed (comma or semicolon delimeted) and
    the header of the file is used to indicate the nonroad mobile source
    data is within the file.

-   [**On-road mobile sources:**]{.bold} The Flat File 10 (FF10) format
    is list directed (comma or semicolon delimited) and contains
    activity inventory such as VMT, speed, and vehicle population data.
    This format requires VMT, SPEED, and VPOP inventory data.

-   [**Point sources:**]{.bold} SMOKE has formats for annual or
    average-day inventories, for day-specific inventories, and for
    hour-specific inventories. For annual or average-day inventories,
    the ORL and FF10 formats can be used for criteria, particulate, and
    toxics inventories. Finally, the CEM data format can be used for
    day-specific or hour-specific data : SMOKE uses the ORIS codes and
    boiler codes in the annual inventory files to match sources from the
    CEM data files.

-   [**Wildfire sources:**]{.bold} There are two approches available
    that you can provide wildfire data that are being treated as point
    sources to SMOKE using the ORL and FF10 point-source formats.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   [**Precomputed plume rise approach:**]{.bold} Certain fields
        must be left blank (such as stack parameters) because they do
        not apply to wildfire sources. When using wildfire data provided
        as point sources, you must also provide day-specific or
        hour-specific wildfire emissions and hour-specific precomputed
        plume rise using the FF10 day-specific and hour-specific
        formats.
    -   [**Internal plume rise calculation approach:**]{.bold} Requires
        two separate inventory files that are provided in a modified ORL
        format: (1) a list of fires with fire-specific characteristics
        including county/state/county, fire identification, location
        coordinate, fire name, SCC and others, as described in
        [Section 8.2.8.3, "ORL FIRE
        Format"](ch08s02s08.html#sect_input_ptinv_fire "8.2.8.3. ORL FIRE Format"),
        and (2) a day-specific fire data including size of area burned,
        fuel loading, and star/end hour of fire ([Section 8.2.6.2, "ORL
        FIREEMIS Emission
        Format"](ch08s02s06.html#sect_input_ptday_fireemis "8.2.6.2. ORL FIREEMIS Emission Format")).
        Unlike the approach listed above, this approach internally
        estimates the plume rise using the size of the area burned and
        fuel loading, and it adjusts temporal profiles using the start
        and end hours of the fire. See detail at [Section 4.4.17, "Plume
        Rise Calculation for
        Fires"](ch04s04s17.html "4.4.17. Plume Rise Calculation for Fires")
    :::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s03s02.html)                [Up](ch02s03.html)                     [Next](ch02s03s04.html)
  2.3.2. Inventory source categories     [Home](index.html)     2.3.4. Country, state, and county codes
  ------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------
:::
