::: {.navheader}
2.3.8. Maximum Achievable Control Technology codes
:::

[Prev](ch02s03s07.html) 

2.3. Emission inventories

 [Next](ch02s03s09.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_mact_codes}2.3.8. Maximum Achievable Control Technology codes {#maximum-achievable-control-technology-codes .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The following quote explaining MACT codes was taken from EPA to explain
what MACT codes are and why they are used in some inventories and not
others:

::: {.blockquote}
> To evaluate EPA's progress in reducing air toxic emissions through the
> Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards and to identify
> sources that may be modeled as part of residual risk assessments,
> operations within facilities that are subject to MACT standards are
> identified in the NTI by 4-digit MACT codes. [*\[note that the term
> NTI (National Toxics Inventory) has since been replaced with NEI and
> that the codes are now 6 digits\]*]{.emphasis}
>
> A MACT category is one for which emissions limitations have been or
> are being developed under section 112(d) of the Clean Air Act
> (National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants). EPA sets
> source category, technology based standards through its MACT program
> that sharply reduce emissions of HAPs. EPA's ATW web site includes
> information on the MACT source categories and the MACT program
> (www.epa.gov/ttn/atw/eparules.html). The tagging of data with MACT
> codes allows EPA to determine reductions attributable to the MACT
> program. The NTI associates MACT codes corresponding to MACT source
> categories with stationary major and \[section-112\] area source data.
> MACT codes are assigned at the process level or at the site level in
> the point source data, e.g., the MACT code for municipal waste
> combustors (MWCs) is assigned at the site level whereas the MACT code
> for petroleum refinery catalytic cracking is assigned at the process
> level. MACT codes are also assigned to source categories in the
> nonpoint source file.
:::

In SMOKE, MACT codes are treated as 6-character strings, with no
internal hierarchy associated with the number.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s03s07.html)                             [Up](ch02s03.html)                                     [Next](ch02s03s09.html)
  2.3.7. Geographical Code (GEOCODE\_LEVEL\[1-4\]     [Home](index.html)     2.3.9. Source types: major and section-112 area sources
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
:::
