::: {.navheader}
2.12.2. Assigning sources to grid cells
:::

[Prev](ch02s12.html) 

2.12. Spatial processing

 [Next](ch02s12s03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e5900}2.12.2. Assigning sources to grid cells {#assigning-sources-to-grid-cells .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.12.2.1. Spatial allocation of area/nonpoint, nonroad mobile, and
on-road mobile nonlink sources](ch02s12s02.html#d0e5905)]{.section}

[[2.12.2.2. Spatial allocation of area-to-point
sources](ch02s12s02.html#d0e5977)]{.section}

[[2.12.2.3. Spatial allocation of pregridded
sources](ch02s12s02.html#d0e5985)]{.section}

[[2.12.2.4. Spatial allocation of on-road mobile link
sources](ch02s12s02.html#d0e5993)]{.section}

[[2.12.2.5. Spatial allocation of point
sources](ch02s12s02.html#d0e6018)]{.section}
:::

SMOKE takes a different approach to assigning sources to grid cells for
each SMOKE source category and some special cases. In the following
subsections, we describe the concepts of spatial allocation of (1)
area/nonpoint, nonroad, mobile, and on-road mobile nonlink sources; (2)
area-to-point sources; (3) pregridded area sources, (4) on-road mobile
link sources, and (5) point sources.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e5905}2.12.2.1. Spatial allocation of area/nonpoint, nonroad mobile, and on-road mobile nonlink sources {#spatial-allocation-of-areanonpoint-nonroad-mobile-and-on-road-mobile-nonlink-sources .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The area/nonpoint, nonroad mobile, and on-road mobile nonlink sources
all have emissions in the inventory with county-total values. To
spatially allocate these emissions, factors must be assigned to each
source to distribute the county-total emissions across the grid cells
that intersect the county. This is accomplished using a
cross-referencing approach that assigns a spatial surrogate to each
source in the inventory.

The spatial surrogates files, located in `SRGPRO_PATH`{.envar} contain
factors for allocating emissions from a county-total to a gridded value,
and there are usually many sets of factors available for each county.
The data in this file are used to estimate the spatial distribution of
county-total emissions inside the county. These sets of factors are
calculated from other data that are available at a finer resolution than
the county data, such as census tracks. Examples of commonly available
surrogates are population, housing, urban area, rural area, agriculture,
water, railroads, major highways, airports, ports, and forest. To ensure
correct emissions processing, it is essential that all counties within
the inventory and domain be included in the spatial surrogates file. If
any counties inside the domain are left out of the file, then SMOKE will
not be able to detect this; instead, it will act as though the county is
outside of the domain and drop the emissions.

The general case of cross-referencing and profiles was described in
[Section 2.4, "Cross-referencing and
profiles"](ch02s04.html "2.4. Cross-referencing and profiles"). During
spatial allocation with the **Grdmat** program, the spatial
cross-reference file (`AGREF`{.envar} or `MGREF`{.envar}) assigns
spatial surrogates for area/nonpoint, nonroad mobile, and on-road mobile
nonlink sources. The spatial cross-reference file associates SCCs with a
spatial surrogate code, which is an arbitrary positive integer code that
also appears in the spatial surrogates file along with the spatial
surrogate data. It is important to ensure (if possible) that the spatial
surrogate codes assigned to each SCC are actually available in the
surrogate file for all counties in the inventory with that SCC. For
example, if the water surrogate is assigned to motorboat sources in a
given county, the spatial surrogate file should have values for the
water surrogate in that county. If this is not the case, SMOKE will be
forced to use a "[fallback]{.quote}" surrogate, defined with the
`SMK_DEFAULT_SRGID`{.envar} environment variable setting, which assigns
a surrogate that is defined for every county in the domain.
`SMK_DEFAULT_SRGID`{.envar} is mandatory and must be set to the
population surrogate code listed in the `SRGDESC`{.envar} file. The
population surrogate in this case serves two purposes; 1) It defines all
the FIPS codes contained within the gridded domain which reduces I/O in
the gridding process and 2) this fallback approach prevents the
emissions for that county and source category from being dropped from
the emissions processing. **Grdmat** produces warnings in the log file
whenever the fallback surrogate is used. If the fallback surrogate also
causes the emissions to go to zero, an additional warning that indicates
the emissions are being dropped is also written to the **Grdmat** log
file. It is to the the users discretion to use the fallback described in
purpose 2. This is set by the `SMK_USE_FALLBACK`{.envar} environment
variable either set as \[Y/N\].

The surrogate codes are defined, described and a reference to the
spatial surrogate files listed in the surrogate description file
`SRGDESC`{.envar} which is likewise set as the environment variable
`SRGDESC`{.envar}. Because the surrogate codes are arbitrarily assigned,
you need to make sure that the spatial cross-reference is developed in
conjunction with the spatial surrogates so that the surrogate codes used
in each are consistent. It is not generally wise to develop surrogates
without a cross-reference, unless the surrogate codes used in the
surrogates file are set to the same values that are in a spatial
cross-reference file that is already available. In other words, the
surrogate codes in `SRGDESC`{.envar}, `AMGREF`{.envar} and
`AMGPRO`{.envar} should be in aggrement.

[Figure 2.23, "Spatial allocation of county-total
emissions"](ch02s12s02.html#fig_concepts_spatial_allocation_county "Figure 2.23. Spatial allocation of county-total emissions")
illustrates spatial allocation of all county-based emissions sources.
The box at the left represents a grid with a single county, shaded in
gray to represent an emissions value in that county. The arrow
represents the spatial allocation steps. The box at right shows that all
grid cells that intersect the county have emissions contributed by the
county. Cells that intersect more of the county are shown in darker
colors, simulating the effect of using area surrogates. The darker cells
could also represent cells in which a large city causes the population
surrogate to concentrate the emissions in those cells, while the
surrounding regions within the county have lower emissions.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_spatial_allocation_county}

**Figure 2.23. Spatial allocation of county-total emissions**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Spatial allocation of county-total
emissions](images\concepts\spatial_allocation_county_html.jpg)
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e5977}2.12.2.2. Spatial allocation of area-to-point sources {#spatial-allocation-of-area-to-point-sources .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

In some cases, the inventory import processing (by the **Smkinven**
program) will have assigned point locations to some of the county-based
inventory sources such as airports. Spatial allocation for these sources
ignores the assigned surrogate, sets the surrogate assignment to 0, and
uses the point-source locations and assigned fractions to determine the
cells and associated magnitudes of the emissions from the county-total
source.
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e5985}2.12.2.3. Spatial allocation of pregridded sources {#spatial-allocation-of-pregridded-sources .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

When pregridded data are provided to SMOKE, the spatial allocation step
must still be run. In this case, **Grdmat** just maps the pregridded
emissions to the correct cells and outputs a simple gridding matrix that
is used in later processing steps to maintain the pregridded nature of
the inventory.
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e5993}2.12.2.4. Spatial allocation of on-road mobile link sources {#spatial-allocation-of-on-road-mobile-link-sources .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

On-road mobile link sources are straight line segments within a county
that have emissions and/or VMT data associated with them as well as the
latitudes and longitudes of the starting and ending positions of the
link. SMOKE determines the fraction of each link within each grid cell,
and then assigns the emissions or VMT from the link to those grid cells
that the link intersects, by weighting the emissions according to the
length of the link within a grid cell divided by the total length of the
link.

As shown in [Figure 2.24, "Spatial allocation of on-road mobile link
sources"](ch02s12s02.html#fig_concepts_spatial_allocation_link "Figure 2.24. Spatial allocation of on-road mobile link sources"),
three link sources in the left-hand diagram are joined at their ends to
represent a road cutting through the county. As shown in the figure,
link sources do not bisect county boundaries (new link sources would be
used to continue the road into an adjoining county). The three portions
of the link have different VMT values, as represented by the three
different shades of gray that highlight the link. The arrow represents
the spatial allocation step. In the right-hand diagram, the cells that
intersect the link sources are shaded, with darker shading used in cells
in which the link intersects the cell more and the link has higher VMT.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_spatial_allocation_link}

**Figure 2.24. Spatial allocation of on-road mobile link sources**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Spatial allocation of on-road mobile link
sources](images\concepts\spatial_allocation_link_html.jpg)
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e6018}2.12.2.5. Spatial allocation of point sources {#spatial-allocation-of-point-sources .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Spatial allocation of point sources in **Grdmat** is very
straightforward. The **Grdmat** program simply determines which cell the
lat-lon coordinates are in and assigns all emissions from that source to
a single grid cell. Except for (1) plume-in-grid sources for all models
and (2) elevated sources for UAM-based models (both addressed in
[Section 2.15, "Elevated-source
processing"](ch02s15.html "2.15. Elevated-source processing"), this
means that the AQMs do not have information about where in the grid cell
the point source is located.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s12.html)         [Up](ch02s12.html)                                        [Next](ch02s12s03.html)
  2.12. Spatial processing     [Home](index.html)     2.12.3. Creating the spatial allocation intermediate files
  --------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
:::
