::: {.navheader}
2.13. Growth processing
:::

[Prev](ch02s12s03.html) 

Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts

 [Next](ch02s13s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_concepts_growth_processing}2.13. Growth processing {#growth-processing .title style="clear: both"}
-----------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.13.1. Assigning growth factors](ch02s13.html#d0e6164)]{.section}

[[2.13.2. Reporting on the factors assigned to each source in the
inventory](ch02s13s02.html)]{.section}

[[2.13.3. Creating the growth matrix](ch02s13s03.html)]{.section}

[[2.13.4. Applying the growth matrix](ch02s13s04.html)]{.section}

[[2.13.5. Creating a grown inventory file](ch02s13s05.html)]{.section}
:::

Growth processing creates emission data sets for years other than a year
for which an emissions inventory is available. For example, if an
inventory is available for 1996, but the modeling effort involves
predicting ozone levels in 2007, then the emissions inventory must be
grown to the year 2007. Previous versions of this document used the term
"[projection]{.quote}" for this function; in this version, however,
"[projection]{.quote}" refers to both growth of emissions (which is
covered in this subsection) and control of emissions (addressed in
[Section 2.14, "Control
processing"](ch02s14.html "2.14. Control processing")). The **Cntlmat**
program performs both growth and control functions. For growth
processing, **Cntlmat** creates a growth matrix that contains the growth
factors for each source and pollutant in the inventory. The **Grwinven**
program then combines the growth matrix with the emission inventory to
create a grown emission inventory.

If no new sources are being added when moving from the inventory year to
the future year, then **Grwinven** can be used with the base case
inventory and the growth matrix based on it. If new sources must be
added, then the data structuring step (performed by **Smkinven**) must
be rerun for the new number of sources, followed by running **Cntlmat**
to create the growth matrix; then **Grwinven** applies the matrix to the
new inventory file. Alternatively, users may elect to prepare a
future-year inventory outside of SMOKE and import it directly with
**Smkinven**, which skips the **Cntlmat** and **Grwinven** steps.

[Figure 2.25, "Relationship between inventory sources and growth
matrix"](ch02s13.html#fig_concepts_growth_processing "Figure 2.25. Relationship between inventory sources and growth matrix")
shows the relationship between the inventory and the growth matrix
created by **Cntlmat**, which consists of columns for each pollutant
being grown from one year to another. The entries in the matrix are the
growth factors needed to grow the inventory to a future or past year;
note that these entries can be greater than, equal to, or less than 1
depending on if the emissions should increase, stay the same, or
decrease after the inventory is grown. If the growth factors are the
same for every pollutant in the inventory, then only one column, called
"[pfac]{.quote}", is included in the growth matrix, rather than using
duplicate columns for every pollutant. The growth matrix depends only
upon the growth factors and the inventory, so it is therefore
independent of other factor-based operations for emissions processing;
however, growth of the inventory (using the **Grwinven** program) must
occur before the temporal allocation step when creating model-ready
emissions using inventories grown with SMOKE.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_growth_processing}

**Figure 2.25. Relationship between inventory sources and growth
matrix**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Relationship between inventory sources and growth
matrix](images\concepts\growth_processing_html.jpg)
:::
:::

**Grwinven** combines the intermediate inventory files with one or more
growth matrices to create a new intermediate inventory file with the
same structure as the original file but with a future (or past) year
stored in the header of this file.

In growth processing, the **Cntlmat** program addresses the following
emissions processing needs when creating the growth matrix:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Assigning growth factors

2.  Reporting on the factors assigned to each source in the inventory

3.  Creating the growth matrix
:::

The **Grwinven** program addresses the remaining needs to create a grown
inventory:

::: {.orderedlist}
4.  Applying the growth matrix

5.  Creating a grown inventory file
:::

Each of the issues in the list above is addressed in the following
subsections, in the order in which they appear in the list.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e6164}2.13.1. Assigning growth factors {#assigning-growth-factors .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The **Cntlmat** program assigns growth factors using a cross-reference
approach similar to the approaches used for chemical speciation and
gridding. **Cntlmat** reads the information about the growth factors
from the /PROJECTION/ packet in the control input file
(`GCNTL`{.envar}). As described in detail in [Section 6.2,
"**Cntlmat**"](ch06s02.html "6.2. Cntlmat"), `GCNTL`{.envar} can assign
growth factors by state/county FIPS code, SCC, SIC, MACT, pollutant, and
various combinations of these. The most specific entry is selected by
**Cntlmat** based on the hierarchy described in [Section 6.2,
"**Cntlmat**"](ch06s02.html "6.2. Cntlmat"). Since the /PROJECTION/
packet includes both the cross-referencing information and the growth
factors, there is no need for a profile file (like those used for
chemical speciation). The growth factors may include both positive
growth (factors greater than 1) or negative growth (factors less than 1)
or no growth (factors equal to 1).

The /REACTIVITY/ packet can also be used to grow emissions to a future
or past year, but a different approach is used that includes a
"[phase-in]{.quote}" period and other differences. We describe this
packet in [Section 2.14, "Control
processing"](ch02s14.html "2.14. Control processing").
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s12s03.html)                                         [Up](ch02.html)                                                         [Next](ch02s13s02.html)
  2.12.3. Creating the spatial allocation intermediate files     [Home](index.html)     2.13.2. Reporting on the factors assigned to each source in the inventory
  ------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::
