::: {.navheader}
2.3. Emission inventories
:::

[Prev](ch02s02.html) 

Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts

 [Next](ch02s03s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_concepts_emis_inv}2.3. Emission inventories {#emission-inventories .title style="clear: both"}
----------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.3.1. Inventory data
types](ch02s03.html#sect_concepts_inv_data_types)]{.section}

[[2.3.2. Inventory source categories](ch02s03s02.html)]{.section}

[[2.3.3. Inventory file formats](ch02s03s03.html)]{.section}

[[2.3.4. Country, state, and county codes](ch02s03s04.html)]{.section}

[[2.3.5. Source Classification Codes](ch02s03s05.html)]{.section}

[[2.3.6. Standard Industrial Classification
codes](ch02s03s06.html)]{.section}

[[2.3.7. Geographical Code
(GEOCODE\_LEVEL\[1-4\]](ch02s03s07.html)]{.section}

[[2.3.8. Maximum Achievable Control Technology
codes](ch02s03s08.html)]{.section}

[[2.3.9. Source types: major and section-112 area
sources](ch02s03s09.html)]{.section}

[[2.3.10. Source types: nonroad and onroad mobile
sources](ch02s03s10.html)]{.section}
:::

Emission inventories are the key input files to SMOKE and emissions
modeling. The data types that these inventories contain are called
inventory pollutants (e.g., carbon monoxide, ammonia, mercury). By
itself, SMOKE does not require specific data types in the inventory
files it reads. However, the AQMs that SMOKE supports do require certain
input data, called model species, which in turn requires SMOKE to use
certain inventory pollutants.

In this section, we focus on the inventory files that SMOKE uses.
[Section 2.3.1, "Inventory data
types"](ch02s03.html#sect_concepts_inv_data_types "2.3.1. Inventory data types")
describes the major inventory types useable by SMOKE. In [Section 2.3.2,
"Inventory source
categories"](ch02s03s02.html "2.3.2. Inventory source categories"), we
describe the inventory source categories, and in [Section 2.3.3,
"Inventory file
formats"](ch02s03s03.html "2.3.3. Inventory file formats") we discuss
the inventory file formats. The remaining sections describe the various
codes used in specific inventory sources: [Section 2.3.4, "Country,
state, and county
codes"](ch02s03s04.html "2.3.4. Country, state, and county codes"),
[Section 2.3.5, "Source Classification
Codes"](ch02s03s05.html "2.3.5. Source Classification Codes"),
[Section 2.3.6, "Standard Industrial Classification
codes"](ch02s03s06.html "2.3.6. Standard Industrial Classification codes"),
[Section 2.3.8, "Maximum Achievable Control Technology
codes"](ch02s03s08.html "2.3.8. Maximum Achievable Control Technology codes"),
[Section 2.3.9, "Source types: major and section-112 area
sources"](ch02s03s09.html "2.3.9. Source types: major and section-112 area sources")
and [Section 2.3.10, "Source types: nonroad and onroad mobile
sources"](ch02s03s10.html "2.3.10. Source types: nonroad and onroad mobile sources").

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_inv_data_types}2.3.1. Inventory data types {#inventory-data-types .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

SMOKE processes criteria, particulate, toxics, and activity data
inventories. Activity data will be discussed along with on-road mobile
sources in the next section. By criteria inventories, we mean
inventories containing EPA's criteria pollutants: carbon monoxide (CO),
nitrogen oxides (NO~x~), and volatile organic compounds (VOC) or total
organic gases (TOG). Particulate inventories contain ammonia (NH~3~),
sulfur dioxide (SO~2~), particulate matter (PM) of size 10 microns or
less (PM~10~), and PM of size 2.5 microns or less (PM~2.5~).

Additionally, SMOKE can process inventories with pre-speciated criteria
and/or particulate emissions. For example, elemental carbon of size 2.5
microns or less can be provided as input to SMOKE directly, instead of
letting SMOKE's speciation step compute it from the PM~2.5~ total
emissions. To ensure that SMOKE correctly processes the data when you
are using pre-speciated emissions, other input files must be configured
in specific ways, as explained in [Section 4.4.10, "Use a different
speciation mechanism or change speciation
inputs"](ch04s04s10.html "4.4.10. Use a different speciation mechanism or change speciation inputs").

The toxics inventories that SMOKE can process are data from the National
Emission Inventory (NEI) for Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs). This
inventory contains hundreds of specific compounds representing the 188
HAPs defined by the Clear Air Act. The original list of 189 HAPs and
modifications representing the current list are available from the
[EPA's web site](http://www.epa.gov/ttn/atw/orig189.html). The reason
the inventory contains many more pollutants than 188 is because several
on the list of 188 are pollutant groups, such as polycyclic organic
matter, cyanide compounds and numerous metal compounds including
chromium compounds, cadmium compounds, manganese compounds, and others.
Note that because of these groups, specific compounds in the inventory
in one inventory year may not exactly match the compounds in another
inventory year. For example, one may have lead oxide reported one year
but not in a subsequent year. However, those compounds not belonging to
compound groups are likely to be in the inventory year after year,
particularly the common gaseous HAPs emitted by mobile sources such as
benzene, 1,3-butadiene, acrolein, formaldehyde, and acetaldehyde.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s02.html)                             [Up](ch02.html)                  [Next](ch02s03s02.html)
  2.2. Assigns file and environment variables     [Home](index.html)     2.3.2. Inventory source categories
  ---------------------------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------
:::
