::: {.navheader}
2.8.2. Area-source processing
:::

[Prev](ch02s08.html) 

2.8. Area, biogenic, mobile, and point processing summaries

 [Next](ch02s08s03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_area_source_processing}2.8.2. Area-source processing {#area-source-processing .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.8.2.1. Typical route](ch02s08s02.html#d0e2298)]{.section}

[[2.8.2.2. Pre-gridded
Emissions](ch02s08s02.html#sect_concepts_pregridded_data)]{.section}

[[2.8.2.3. Day-specific and Hour-specific
Emissions](ch02s08s02.html#d0e2402)]{.section}
:::

In SMOKE, there are two major processing routes that you can take for
area sources: the typical route and the pregridded data route. (Recall
that by "[area sources]{.quote}" in SMOKE we mean stationary
area/nonpoint sources and nonroad mobile sources.)

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e2298}2.8.2.1. Typical route {#typical-route .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The typical route involves processing data identified by
country/state/county codes and SCCs. The processing steps vary depending
on whether you are doing base-case processing or future- or past-year
processing. The steps for base-year processing are shown in [Figure 2.8,
"Base case area-source processing
steps"](ch02s08s02.html#fig_concepts_area_base "Figure 2.8. Base case area-source processing steps").
In [Figure 2.4, "Parallel approach to emissions
processing"](ch02s07.html#fig_concepts_parallel_approach "Figure 2.4. Parallel approach to emissions processing"),
we also included the major intermediate vectors and matrices; please
refer to that diagram for those details. The inventory import step reads
the raw emissions data, screens them, processes them, and converts the
raw data to the SMOKE intermediate inventory file (inventory vectors in
[Figure 2.4, "Parallel approach to emissions
processing"](ch02s07.html#fig_concepts_parallel_approach "Figure 2.4. Parallel approach to emissions processing")).
The emissions in the inventory file are subdivided to hourly emissions
during temporal allocation; assigned chemical speciation factors during
speciation, and assigned spatial allocation factors during gridding. The
merge step combines the hourly emissions, speciation matrix, and
gridding matrix to create model-ready emissions.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_area_base}

**Figure 2.8. Base case area-source processing steps**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Base case area-source processing
steps](images\concepts\area_base_html.jpg)
:::
:::

In [Figure 2.9, "Future- or past-year growth and optional control
area-processing
steps"](ch02s08s02.html#fig_concepts_area_growth "Figure 2.9. Future- or past-year growth and optional control area-processing steps"),
we show the area-source processing steps for future- or past-year
processing. This processing is similar to the base-year processing flow,
except the growth and controls step is added to create the growth matrix
and optionally one or more control matrices. The grow inventory step
applies the growth matrix to convert the base-year inventory to a future
or past year. Also, the control matrix can optionally be used in the
merge step to apply control factors to the future- or past-year
emissions. The steps shown with dotted lines represent steps that can be
reused from the base-year processing because they do not depend on any
of the new steps.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_area_growth}

**Figure 2.9. Future- or past-year growth and optional control
area-processing steps**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Future- or past-year growth and optional control area-processing
steps](images\concepts\area_growth_html.jpg)
:::
:::

Finally, inventory controls as well as growth can be applied at the
front end of processing if such a scheme is needed ([Figure 2.10,
"Alternative future- or past-year growth and control area-processing
steps"](ch02s08s02.html#fig_concepts_area_projection "Figure 2.10. Alternative future- or past-year growth and control area-processing steps")).
This method permits up to 80 growth and/or control matrices to be
applied to an inventory, whereas the method shown in [Figure 2.9,
"Future- or past-year growth and optional control area-processing
steps"](ch02s08s02.html#fig_concepts_area_growth "Figure 2.9. Future- or past-year growth and optional control area-processing steps")
allows only one control matrix in the merge step, although any number of
growth matrices on the front end. The processing scheme shown in
[Figure 2.10, "Alternative future- or past-year growth and control
area-processing
steps"](ch02s08s02.html#fig_concepts_area_projection "Figure 2.10. Alternative future- or past-year growth and control area-processing steps")
can therefore be useful when mixing and matching many control strategies
for simulations.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_area_projection}

**Figure 2.10. Alternative future- or past-year growth and control
area-processing steps**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Alternative future- or past-year growth and control area-processing
steps](images\concepts\area_projection_html.jpg)
:::
:::

In sections later in this chapter, we describe the SMOKE programs that
are needed for each of these processing steps and additional details
about what activities are accomplished during each step. These sections
are:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [Section 2.9, "Inventory
    import"](ch02s09.html "2.9. Inventory import")
-   [Section 2.10, "Temporal
    processing"](ch02s10.html "2.10. Temporal processing")
-   [Section 2.11, "Chemical speciation
    processing"](ch02s11.html "2.11. Chemical speciation processing")
-   [Section 2.12, "Spatial
    processing"](ch02s12.html "2.12. Spatial processing")
-   [Section 2.13, "Growth
    processing"](ch02s13.html "2.13. Growth processing")
-   [Section 2.14, "Control
    processing"](ch02s14.html "2.14. Control processing")
-   [Section 2.18, "Creating model-ready
    emissions"](ch02s18.html "2.18. Creating model-ready emissions")
-   [Section 2.20, "Quality
    assurance"](ch02s20.html "2.20. Quality assurance")
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#sect_concepts_pregridded_data}2.8.2.2. Pre-gridded Emissions {#pre-gridded-emissions .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.8.2.2.1. Pregridded data route for same modeling
domain](ch02s08s02.html#d0e2367)]{.section}

[[2.8.2.2.2. Pregridded data route for a different modeling
domain](ch02s08s02.html#d0e2390)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

##### []{#d0e2367}2.8.2.2.1. Pregridded data route for same modeling domain {#pregridded-data-route-for-same-modeling-domain .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The second processing approach for area sources involves using
pregridded data. As indicated in [Section 2.8.1, "Summary of SMOKE
processing
categories"](ch02s08.html#sect_concepts_summary_source_processing "2.8.1. Summary of SMOKE processing categories"),
area sources can be specified by grid cell instead of by
country/state/county code and SCC. This optional approach to modeling
area sources requires the inventory emissions data to be gridded prior
to inventory import. The gridded area sources do [*not*]{.emphasis} have
country/state/county codes or SCCs, and can be provided via an I/O API
time-independent gridded data file. The flow diagrams that describe this
type of processing are identical to those in [Figure 2.8, "Base case
area-source processing
steps"](ch02s08s02.html#fig_concepts_area_base "Figure 2.8. Base case area-source processing steps"),
[Figure 2.9, "Future- or past-year growth and optional control
area-processing
steps"](ch02s08s02.html#fig_concepts_area_growth "Figure 2.9. Future- or past-year growth and optional control area-processing steps"),
and [Figure 2.10, "Alternative future- or past-year growth and control
area-processing
steps"](ch02s08s02.html#fig_concepts_area_projection "Figure 2.10. Alternative future- or past-year growth and control area-processing steps").
Although the gridding step is quite trivial when the grid cell numbers
are already specified, the gridding step must still be run to create a
gridding matrix required for the merge step.

The disadvantage of using pregridded emissions for area-source
processing is that there are no country/state/county codes and SCCs to
use in the cross-referencing of any processing step. Therefore, temporal
profiles, speciation profiles, growth factors, and control factors must
be applied uniformly across the model grid by pollutant.
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

##### []{#d0e2390}2.8.2.2.2. Pregridded data route for a different modeling domain {#pregridded-data-route-for-a-different-modeling-domain .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The sequence for processing global emissions data (e.g., EDGAR, RCP and
HTAP) for hemispheric CMAQ involves projecting the data from
latitude-longitude projection to polar stereographic projection,
converting the inventory species to the terms required by the CMAQ
chemical mechanism, and extrapolating the annual emissions to hourly
estimates.

[Detail
information](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1veqEjaTPbDpkqHAIcyReokvv6MaENz0TrwOcFl1ewac/edit#heading=h.xo1iz1nkhapd)
on how to process pregridded global emissions data for CMAQ Hemispheric
Modeling in SMOKE is available at [this
link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1veqEjaTPbDpkqHAIcyReokvv6MaENz0TrwOcFl1ewac/edit#heading=h.xo1iz1nkhapd).
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e2402}2.8.2.3. Day-specific and Hour-specific Emissions {#day-specific-and-hour-specific-emissions .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Emissions from area sources are sometimes available as day- or
hour-specific values. **Smkinven** can import the day- and hour-specific
data, and it can also convert the hour-specific data to hour-specific
temporal profiles. When these data are available, the **Temporal**
program overrides the annual or daily emissions with the most specific
data available. If day-specific data are available, **Temporal** uses
them to overwrite the annual or average-day emissions during the time
periods that these data are available. If hour-specific data are
available, **Temporal** uses them to overwrite the annual, average-day
emissions, or day-specific emissions data.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s08.html)                                            [Up](ch02s08.html)               [Next](ch02s08s03.html)
  2.8. Area, biogenic, mobile, and point processing summaries     [Home](index.html)     2.8.3. Biogenic-source processing
  -------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------
:::
