::: {.navheader}
2.3.2. Inventory source categories
:::

[Prev](ch02s03.html) 

2.3. Emission inventories

 [Next](ch02s03s03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_inv_source_categories}2.3.2. Inventory source categories {#inventory-source-categories .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.3.2.1. Overview](ch02s03s02.html#d0e661)]{.section}

[[2.3.2.2. Detailed source category
descriptions](ch02s03s02.html#d0e888)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e661}2.3.2.1. Overview {#overview .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Emission inventories are divided into several source categories. These
divisions stem from both differing methods for preparing the inventories
and from different characteristics and attributes of the categories
(more on these terms later). Generally, emission inventories are divided
into the following source categories:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**Stationary area/Nonpoint sources:**]{.bold} Sources that are
    treated as being spread over a spatial extent (usually a county or
    air district) and that are not moveable (as compared to nonroad
    mobile and on-road mobile sources). Because it is not possible to
    collect the emissions at each point of emission, they are estimated
    over larger regions. The EPA introduced the term
    "[nonpoint]{.quote}" to replace "[stationary area]{.quote}" in order
    to avoid confusion with the term "[area source]{.quote}", which is
    used as a regulatory term in the toxics realm. However,
    "[nonpoint]{.quote}" has not gained acceptance (thus far) by the
    criteria inventory/modeling community. Thus, in this manual we will
    use the term "[stationary area]{.quote}" to refer to these sources
    when they are in criteria inventories, while we use the term
    "[nonpoint]{.quote}" to refer to these sources when they are in
    toxics inventories. Examples of nonpoint or stationary area sources
    are residential heating and architectural coatings. Numerous
    sources, such as dry cleaning facilities, may be treated either as
    stationary area/nonpoint sources or as point sources; in particular,
    the toxics inventory contains numerous small sources (based on
    emissions) that are not inventoried as nonpoint sources because
    their locations are known and are provided.

-   [**Nonroad mobile sources:**]{.bold} Vehicular and otherwise movable
    sources that do not include vehicles that travel on roadways. These
    sources are also computed as being spread over a spatial extent
    (again, a county or air district). Examples of nonroad mobile
    sources include locomotives, lawn and garden equipment, construction
    vehicles, and boating emissions. These sources are included in both
    criteria and toxics inventories.

-   [**On-road mobile sources:**]{.bold} Vehicular sources that travel
    on roadways. These sources can be computed either as being spread
    over a spatial extent or as being assigned to a line location
    (called a link). Data in on-road inventories can be either emissions
    or activity data. Activity data consists of vehicle miles traveled
    (VMT) and, optionally, vehicle speed. Activity data are used when
    SMOKE will be computing emission factors via another model such as
    MOVES. Examples of on-road mobile sources include light-duty
    gasoline vehicles and heavy-duty diesel vehicles. On-road mobile
    sources are included in both criteria and toxics inventories.

-   [**Point sources:**]{.bold} These are sources that are identified by
    point locations, typically because they are regulated and their
    locations are available in regulatory reports. Point sources are
    often further subdivided into electric generating utilities (EGUs)
    and non-EGU sources, particularly in criteria inventories in which
    EGUs are a primary source of NO~x~ and SO~2~. Examples of non-EGU
    point sources include chemical manufacturers and furniture
    refinishers. Point sources are included in both the criteria and
    toxics inventories.

-   [**Wildfire sources:**]{.bold} Traditionally, wildfire emissions
    have been treated as stationary area sources. More recently, data
    have also been developed for point locations, with day-specific
    emissions and hour-specific plume rise (vertical distribution of
    emissions). In this case, the wildfire emissions are processed by
    SMOKE as point sources.

-   [**Biogenic land use data:**]{.bold} Biogenic land use data
    characterize the type of vegetation that exists in either county
    total or grid cell values. The biogenic land use data in North
    American is available using two different sets of land use
    categories: the Biogenic Emissions Landcover Database (BELD) version
    2 (BELD2), and the BELD version 3 (BELD3).
:::

Emission processing in SMOKE is divided into four processing categories:
area, biogenic, mobile, and point. The definitions of these categories
that SMOKE uses are different than those used for defining emission
inventories. [Table 2.1, "Inventory source categories and SMOKE
processing capabilities and
categories"](ch02s03s02.html#tbl_concepts_inv_categories "Table 2.1. Inventory source categories and SMOKE processing capabilities and categories")
lists the inventory source categories, the types of inventories
(activity data, criteria, particulates, and toxics) that SMOKE can
process, the temporal resolution that is acceptable to SMOKE, and the
SMOKE processing category that should be used for processing the
inventory.

::: {.table}
[]{#tbl_concepts_inv_categories}

**Table 2.1. Inventory source categories and SMOKE processing
capabilities and categories**

Inventory source category
:::
:::
:::

Temporal resolution that SMOKE can process\*

SMOKE processing category

Activity data

Criteria

Particulates

Toxics

Nonpoint or stationary area

N/A

A, S, D, H

A, S, D, H

A, S, D, H

Area

Nonroad mobile

N/A

A, S, D, H

A, S, D, H

A, S, D, H

Area

On-road mobile (MOBILE 6)

A

A, S, D, H

A, S, D, H

A, S, D, H

Mobile

On-road mobile (MOVES)

A

H

H

H

Mobile

EGU

N/A

A, S, D, H

A, S, D, H

A, S, D, H

Point

Non-EGU

N/A

A, S, D, H

A, S, D, H

A, S, D, H

Point

Wildfire with precomputed plume rise

N/A

D, H

D, H

N/A

Point

Wildfire with internal plume rise calculation

N/A

D

D

N/A

Point

Biogenic land use

N/A

X

N/A

N/A

Biogenic

\* [**A**]{.bold} = Supports annual data; [**S**]{.bold} = Supports
average-day data; [**D**]{.bold} = Supports day-specific data;
[**H**]{.bold} = Supports hourly data; [**X**]{.bold} = Supports
available data

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e888}2.3.2.2. Detailed source category descriptions {#detailed-source-category-descriptions .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.3.2.2.1. Nonpoint/stationary area and nonroad mobile (SMOKE
category: area)](ch02s03s02.html#d0e905)]{.section}

[[2.3.2.2.2. On-road mobile (SMOKE category:
mobile)](ch02s03s02.html#d0e965)]{.section}

[[2.3.2.2.3. Point sources (SMOKE category:
point)](ch02s03s02.html#d0e1007)]{.section}

[[2.3.2.2.4. Wildfire with precomputed plume rise (SMOKE category:
point)](ch02s03s02.html#d0e1056)]{.section}

[[2.3.2.2.5. Wildfires with internal plume rise calculation (SMOKE
category: point)](ch02s03s02.html#d0e1100)]{.section}

[[2.3.2.2.6. Biogenic land use (SMOKE category:
biogenic)](ch02s03s02.html#d0e1139)]{.section}
:::

Each inventory source category has source characteristics, source
attributes, data values, and data attributes. [*Source
characteristics*]{.emphasis} are unique to each inventory source
category and also distinguish one source in the inventory from another.
[*Source attributes*]{.emphasis} further describe the sources with other
information that is useful for emissions processing, such as
point-source flue gas exit height and temperature. The [*data
values*]{.emphasis} are either emissions values or activity values. The
[*data attributes*]{.emphasis} are additional information about the data
values, such as the percentage reduction in emission from controls
already applied to the source. In the following subsections, we
summarize the source characteristics and attributes and the data values
and attributes that are used by SMOKE for each of the inventory
categories.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

##### []{#d0e905}2.3.2.2.1. Nonpoint/stationary area and nonroad mobile (SMOKE category: area) {#nonpointstationary-area-and-nonroad-mobile-smoke-category-area .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**Source characteristics:**]{.bold} For all typical inventories,
    the source characteristics that identify these sources are
    country/state/county code, SCC and/or GEOCODE\_LEVEL\[1-4\]. See
    [Section 2.3.4, "Country, state, and county
    codes"](ch02s03s04.html "2.3.4. Country, state, and county codes")
    and [Section 2.3.5, "Source Classification
    Codes"](ch02s03s05.html "2.3.5. Source Classification Codes") and
    [Section 2.3.7, "Geographical Code
    (GEOCODE\_LEVEL\[1-4\]"](ch02s03s07.html "2.3.7. Geographical Code (GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]")
    for further information.

-   [**Optional source characteristics:**]{.bold} SMOKE can also use
    pregridded data from the same modeling domain as a SMOKE area
    source; this is described in more detail in [Section 2.8.2.2,
    "Pre-gridded
    Emissions"](ch02s08s02.html#sect_concepts_pregridded_data "2.8.2.2. Pre-gridded Emissions").
    In this case, the source characteristics and attributes,
    (country/state/county code and SCC) are [*not*]{.emphasis} used in
    SMOKE. SMOKE can also use pregridded data from a different modeling
    domain along with geographical codes (GEOCODE\_LEVEL\[1-4\]) and
    source information from the ARINV file to specify the source
    characteristics and associated source attributes for each grid cell.

-   [**Source attributes:**]{.bold} The inventory year is associated
    with all sources in the inventory input files. In addition, SMOKE
    assigns a time zone (see [Section 2.9.14, "Assign country codes,
    years, and time
    zones"](ch02s09s14.html "2.9.14. Assign country codes, years, and time zones"))
    and an approach for normalization of temporal profiles (see
    [Section 2.9.13, "Set the weekday averaging
    approach"](ch02s09s13.html "2.9.13. Set the weekday averaging approach")).
    In the nonpoint toxics inventory only, Standard Industrial
    Classification (SIC) codes, Maximum Achievable Control Technology
    (MACT) codes, and North American Industrial Classification System
    (NAICS) codes are optional source attributes; the NAICS code is read
    by SMOKE but not otherwise used at this time. Additionally, a
    "[source type]{.quote}" field is available in the nonpoint inventory
    to identify major and Clean Air Act (CAA) section 112 area sources.
    See [Section 2.3.6, "Standard Industrial Classification
    codes"](ch02s03s06.html "2.3.6. Standard Industrial Classification codes")
    for a description of SIC codes, [Section 2.3.8, "Maximum Achievable
    Control Technology
    codes"](ch02s03s08.html "2.3.8. Maximum Achievable Control Technology codes")
    for more about MACT codes, and [Section 2.3.9, "Source types: major
    and section-112 area
    sources"](ch02s03s09.html "2.3.9. Source types: major and section-112 area sources")
    for more about source types. We will refer to the CAA section 112
    area sources as simply "[section-112 area sources]{.quote}".

-   [**Data:**]{.bold} SMOKE can read emissions data for criteria,
    particulate, and toxics pollutants for nonpoint/stationary area and
    nonroad inventories. The SMOKE system is not constrained with regard
    to the pollutants read (although typical examples were given in
    [Section 2.3.1, "Inventory data
    types"](ch02s03.html#sect_concepts_inv_data_types "2.3.1. Inventory data types")).
    SMOKE accepts annual emissions data, average-day emissions data, or
    both (though not all input formats support all types). An emission
    factor value can also be read by SMOKE, but SMOKE does nothing with
    it.

-   [**Data attributes:**]{.bold} Inventories for nonpoint/stationary
    area and nonroad mobile sources can contain control efficiency, rule
    penetration, and rule effectiveness information for each pollutant.
    SMOKE will use these data if provided; otherwise it will set default
    values that indicate that no control-based adjustments have been
    applied to the inventory pollutant data. The defaults are listed in
    the file formats in [Chapter 8, *SMOKE Input
    Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files").
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

##### []{#d0e965}2.3.2.2.2. On-road mobile (SMOKE category: mobile) {#on-road-mobile-smoke-category-mobile .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**Source characteristics:**]{.bold} For on-road mobile inventories,
    the minimum source characteristics that identify these sources are
    country/state/county code and either SCC [*or*]{.emphasis} road
    class and vehicle type codes. When the SCC is provided, it must
    follow a specific pattern in order to contain the road class and
    vehicle type codes (see [Section 2.8.4.1, "Special approach for
    on-road mobile MOVES
    SCCs"](ch02s08s04.html#sect_concepts_onroad_sccs "2.8.4.1. Special approach for on-road mobile MOVES SCCs")).
    When road class and vehicle type codes are provided to SMOKE
    directly, SMOKE translates these to SCC values.

-   [**Optional source characteristics:**]{.bold} A link code may also
    identify on-road sources. This code must be unique within each
    county and SCC (or road class/vehicle type combination).

-   [**Source attributes:**]{.bold} The inventory year is associated
    with all sources in the inventory input files. In addition, SMOKE
    assigns a time zone (see [Section 2.9.14, "Assign country codes,
    years, and time
    zones"](ch02s09s14.html "2.9.14. Assign country codes, years, and time zones"))
    and an approach for normalization of temporal profiles (see
    [Section 2.9.13, "Set the weekday averaging
    approach"](ch02s09s13.html "2.9.13. Set the weekday averaging approach")).
    For sources with link codes, SMOKE will use the starting and ending
    coordinates of the link, using either latitude-longitude (lat-lon)
    values or coordinates in the Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM)
    coordinate system.

-   [**Data:**]{.bold} Emissions data for criteria, particulate, and
    toxics pollutants can be read for on-road mobile inventories. SMOKE
    is not constrained with regard to the pollutants read (although
    typical examples were given in [Section 2.3.1, "Inventory data
    types"](ch02s03.html#sect_concepts_inv_data_types "2.3.1. Inventory data types")).
    SMOKE accepts annual emissions data, average-day emissions data, or
    both (though not all input formats support all types).

    Additionally, on-road mobile inventories can contain VMT and average
    speed activity data, which are needed when users would like SMOKE to
    run MOVES to compute emissions. A combination of precomputed
    emissions and VMT data is also acceptable for input to SMOKE, but
    you are responsible for preventing duplication of emissions.
    Duplication could occur if you input precomputed emissions for the
    same sources that you use SMOKE to compute the emissions on the fly,
    by multiplying the on-road emissions factors from MOVES by hourly
    VMT, and the off-network emission factors from MOVES by annual
    vehicle populations.

-   [**Data attributes:**]{.bold} No data attributes are associated with
    on-road mobile sources.
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

##### []{#d0e1007}2.3.2.2.3. Point sources (SMOKE category: point) {#point-sources-smoke-category-point .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**Source characteristics:**]{.bold} The source characteristics for
    point sources depend on the inventory input format. The SMOKE
    one-record-per-line (ORL) and Flat File 10 Format (FF10) formats
    identify sources by country/state/county code, plant code, point
    code, stack code, segment code, and SCC. 95.

-   [**Optional source characteristics:**]{.bold} SMOKE can support up
    to five location identifiers within a plant, although the most used
    in any currently implemented input file format is four.

-   [**Source attributes:**]{.bold} As with other source categories,
    inventory year is associated with all sources in the inventory input
    files. SMOKE also assigns a time zone (see [Section 2.9.14, "Assign
    country codes, years, and time
    zones"](ch02s09s14.html "2.9.14. Assign country codes, years, and time zones"))
    and an approach for normalization of temporal profiles (see
    [Section 2.9.13, "Set the weekday averaging
    approach"](ch02s09s13.html "2.9.13. Set the weekday averaging approach")).
    In addition, point sources have the following required source
    attributes not associated with other source categories: latitude,
    longitude, stack height, stack diameter (at the exit location), flue
    gas exit velocity, and flue gas exit temperature. Finally, the
    following optional source attributes are also used by SMOKE: SIC
    codes, MACT codes, plant descriptions, emissions release type point
    (e.g., horizontal stack, fugitive), source type (major or
    section-112 area), Office of Regulatory Information Systems (ORIS)
    identification codes, and boiler identification codes. Also, the
    MACT code and source types are supported only by the ORL format. See
    [Section 2.3.6, "Standard Industrial Classification
    codes"](ch02s03s06.html "2.3.6. Standard Industrial Classification codes"),
    [Section 2.3.8, "Maximum Achievable Control Technology
    codes"](ch02s03s08.html "2.3.8. Maximum Achievable Control Technology codes"),
    and [Section 2.3.9, "Source types: major and section-112 area
    sources"](ch02s03s09.html "2.3.9. Source types: major and section-112 area sources")
    for more information.

-   [**Data:**]{.bold} Emissions data for criteria, particulate, and
    toxics pollutants can be read for point inventories. SMOKE is not
    constrained with regard to the pollutants read (although typical
    examples were given in [Section 2.3.1, "Inventory data
    types"](ch02s03.html#sect_concepts_inv_data_types "2.3.1. Inventory data types")).
    SMOKE accepts annual emissions data, average-day emissions data, or
    both.

    Optionally, point-source emissions data can be provided using
    day-specific or hour-specific records. The formats for these data
    are described in [Section 8.2.6, "`PTDAY`{.envar}: Point source
    day-specific
    emissions"](ch08s02s06.html "8.2.6. PTDAY: Point source day-specific emissions")
    and [Section 8.2.7, "`PTHOUR`{.envar}: Point source hour-specific
    emissions"](ch08s02s07.html "8.2.7. PTHOUR: Point source hour-specific emissions").

-   [**Data attributes:**]{.bold} EGU and non-EGU point sources can
    contain control efficiency and rule effectiveness information for
    each pollutant. SMOKE will use these data if provided; otherwise it
    will set default values that indicate that no control-based
    adjustments have been applied to the inventory pollutant data. The
    defaults are listed in the file formats in [Chapter 8, *SMOKE Input
    Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files").
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

##### []{#d0e1056}2.3.2.2.4. Wildfire with precomputed plume rise (SMOKE category: point) {#wildfire-with-precomputed-plume-rise-smoke-category-point .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**Source characteristics:**]{.bold} Wildfires with precomputed
    plumes are identified by the country/state/county code and the fire
    name.

-   [**Optional source characteristics:**]{.bold} There are no optional
    source characteristics for wildfire sources.

-   [**Source attributes:**]{.bold} Like other source categories,
    inventory year is associated with all sources in the inventory input
    files. SMOKE also assigns a time zone (see [Section 2.9.14, "Assign
    country codes, years, and time
    zones"](ch02s09s14.html "2.9.14. Assign country codes, years, and time zones"))
    and an approach for normalization of temporal profiles (see
    [Section 2.9.13, "Set the weekday averaging
    approach"](ch02s09s13.html "2.9.13. Set the weekday averaging approach")).
    In addition, wildfire sources require the latitude and longitude
    source attributes. Finally, additional hour-specific source
    attributes for wildfire sources [*must*]{.emphasis} be provided for
    the fraction of emissions in the surface layer, the height of the
    bottom of the plume, and the height of the top of the plume. These
    hour-specific attributes are provided to SMOKE using the point
    source hour-specific formats described in [Section 8.2.7,
    "`PTHOUR`{.envar}: Point source hour-specific
    emissions"](ch08s02s07.html "8.2.7. PTHOUR: Point source hour-specific emissions").

-   [**Data:**]{.bold} Wildfire source inventories can contain criteria
    and particulate pollutants. SMOKE is not constrained with regard to
    the pollutants read (although typical examples were given in
    [Section 2.3.1, "Inventory data
    types"](ch02s03.html#sect_concepts_inv_data_types "2.3.1. Inventory data types")).
    These data must be provided as day-specific or hour-specific
    emissions values using point source formats specified in
    [Section 8.2.6, "`PTDAY`{.envar}: Point source day-specific
    emissions"](ch08s02s06.html "8.2.6. PTDAY: Point source day-specific emissions")
    and [Section 8.2.7, "`PTHOUR`{.envar}: Point source hour-specific
    emissions"](ch08s02s07.html "8.2.7. PTHOUR: Point source hour-specific emissions").

-   [**Data attributes:**]{.bold} No data attributes are associated with
    wildfire sources.
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

##### []{#d0e1100}2.3.2.2.5. Wildfires with internal plume rise calculation (SMOKE category: point) {#wildfires-with-internal-plume-rise-calculation-smoke-category-point .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**Source characteristics:**]{.bold} Wildfires with internal plume
    rise calculation are identified by the country/state/county code,
    fire identification, fire name, location identification, and SCC.

-   [**Optional source characteristics:**]{.bold} There are optional
    source characteristics for fire sources, such as material burned,
    vegetation types, size of area burned, fuel loading, and fire
    start/end hour. The size of area burned and fuel loading are used
    for computing the fire-specific plume rise. Fire starting and ending
    hours are needed to adjust the hourly temporal profiles for the
    emissions.

-   [**Source attributes:**]{.bold} Like other source categories,
    inventory year is associated with all sources in the inventory input
    files. SMOKE also assigns a time zone (see [Section 2.9.14, "Assign
    country codes, years, and time
    zones"](ch02s09s14.html "2.9.14. Assign country codes, years, and time zones"))
    and will re-normalize temporal profiles based on the starting and
    ending hours of the fire. In addition, wildfire sources require the
    latitude and longitude source attributes to locate the fire. Note
    that all emissions for a fire will be assumed to come from the
    single grid cell that contains the latititude and longitude of the
    fire. Finally, additional day-specific source attributes listed
    above for fire sources [*must*]{.emphasis} be provided for
    calculating the heat flux of each fire, which is used to estimate
    the fraction of emissions in the surface layer, the height of the
    bottom of the plume, and the height of the top of the plume. See
    more information about how to process at [Section 4.4.17, "Plume
    Rise Calculation for
    Fires"](ch04s04s17.html "4.4.17. Plume Rise Calculation for Fires")

-   [**Data:**]{.bold} Fire source inventories can contain criteria and
    particulate pollutants. SMOKE is not constrained with regard to the
    pollutants read (although typical examples were given in
    [Section 8.2.8.3, "ORL FIRE
    Format"](ch08s02s08.html#sect_input_ptinv_fire "8.2.8.3. ORL FIRE Format")).
    These data must be provided as day-specific emissions values using
    point source formats specified in [Section 8.2.6.2, "ORL FIREEMIS
    Emission
    Format"](ch08s02s06.html#sect_input_ptday_fireemis "8.2.6.2. ORL FIREEMIS Emission Format").

-   [**Data attributes:**]{.bold} No data attributes are associated with
    wildfire sources.
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

##### []{#d0e1139}2.3.2.2.6. Biogenic land use (SMOKE category: biogenic) {#biogenic-land-use-smoke-category-biogenic .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**Source characteristics:**]{.bold} Biogenic emission data does not
    fit as neatly into the source-characteristic paradigm as the
    previously described source types. Emissions for biogenic sources
    are estimated starting with land use data, which are available for
    both BELD2 and BELD3 processing. The BELD2 data are available either
    by U.S. state/county and BELD2 land use category or by grid cell and
    BELD2 land use category. BELD3 land use data are available by 1-km
    grid cell over North and Central America and by BELD3 land use
    category.

-   [**Optional source characteristics:**]{.bold} Biogenic land use data
    do not include optional source characteristics. The data are either
    by state/county or by grid cell.

-   [**Source attributes:**]{.bold} There are no source attributes for
    biogenic land use data.

-   [**Data:**]{.bold} The biogenic land use data consist of fractions
    associated with each land use type within a county or grid cell.

-   [**Data attributes:**]{.bold} There are no data attributes for
    biogenic land use data.
:::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s03.html)          [Up](ch02s03.html)           [Next](ch02s03s03.html)
  2.3. Emission inventories     [Home](index.html)     2.3.3. Inventory file formats
  ---------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------
:::
