::: {.navheader}
2.9.9. Fill in and check point-source stack parameters
:::

[Prev](ch02s09s08.html) 

2.9. Inventory import

 [Next](ch02s09s10.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_check_stack_params}2.9.9. Fill in and check point-source stack parameters {#fill-in-and-check-point-source-stack-parameters .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

An additional action taken by the **Smkinven** program for point sources
only is to check stack parameters and fill them in with valid values if
they are missing. **Smkinven** performs the following steps on stack
parameters from the annual or average-day inventory files, but not the
hour-specific stack parameters file.

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   If the stack parameters are zero, **Smkinven** treats them as
    missing values and writes the warning messages.

-   If the exit velocity is missing or zero and the exit flow is not, or
    if the `VELOC_RECALC`{.envar} option is Y in the run script,
    **Smkinven** automatically calculates the exit velocity using the
    formula:

    velocity = flow / (π \* diameter^2^/4)

-   If the stack parameters are not missing or zero, **Smkinven**
    ensures that their values are within the allowed ranges. The range
    for each stack parameter is as follows:

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Height: 0.5 to 2100 meters
    -   Diameter: 0.01 to 100 meters
    -   Exit temperature: 260 to 2000 K
    -   Exit velocity: 0.0001 to 500 m/s
    :::

    When a stack parameter falls outside of its associated range,
    **Smkinven** sets it to the top or bottom of the range, depending on
    whether it is higher than the upper end of the range or lower than
    the lower end. Note that a zero value is not treated as an
    out-of-range parameter, but is treated as a missing value.

-   If the stack parameters are missing or zero, **Smkinven** uses the
    `PSTK`{.envar} file to assign new stack parameters using
    country/state/county and SCC assignments. The format of
    `PSTK`{.envar} file is described in [Section 8.9.3.2,
    "`PSTK`{.envar}: Point source stack replacement parameters
    file"](ch08s09s03.html#sect_input_pstk "8.9.3.2. PSTK: Point source stack replacement parameters file").
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s09s08.html)                                  [Up](ch02s09.html)                             [Next](ch02s09s10.html)
  2.9.8. Assign point-source locations to area sources     [Home](index.html)     2.9.10. Convert coordinates from UTM to lat-lon
  ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------
:::
