::: {.navheader}
2.9.7. Aggregate or disaggregate toxics emissions
:::

[Prev](ch02s09s06.html) 

2.9. Inventory import

 [Next](ch02s09s08.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_aggregate_toxics}2.9.7. Aggregate or disaggregate toxics emissions {#aggregate-or-disaggregate-toxics-emissions .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

**Smkinven** also supports aggregation and disaggregation of toxics
inventory pollutants to match the input needs for AQMs. There are two
components of this aggregation and disaggregation. The first involves
what to do during inventory import to resolve discrepancies between the
inventory content and what data are most useful for further processing
through SMOKE; this topic is addressed in this subsection. The second
issue is conversion of the toxics inventory to the species needed by the
AQM, which is handled by the **Spcmat** program in SMOKE, as described
in [Section 2.11, "Chemical speciation
processing"](ch02s11.html "2.11. Chemical speciation processing").

**Smkinven** uses the inventory table (`INVTABLE`{.envar}) file to
determine what aggregation and disaggregation are needed. The
`INVTABLE`{.envar} file can have both multiple pollutant names per CAS
number and multiple CAS numbers per pollutant name. In the first case,
**Smkinven** disaggregates the emissions to two or more pollutants using
the number provided in the "[Factor]{.quote}" column of the
`INVTABLE`{.envar} file. In the second case, **Smkinven** combines the
separate records in the inventory into the same pollutant. Depending on
the relationship between the "[Keep]{.quote}" column, the "[Pollutant
Name,]{.quote}" and the "[CAS Number]{.quote}" in the inventory table
file, the reader routines ensure that they will keep emissions only for
pollutants (not CAS numbers) with a "[Y]{.quote}" in the
"[Keep]{.quote}" column. **Smkinven** can also tell the difference
between two CAS numbers that are being aggregated for the same source
and a duplicate record (two records for the same source with emissions
for the same pollutant).
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s09s06.html)       [Up](ch02s09.html)                                  [Next](ch02s09s08.html)
  2.9.6. Sort the inventory     [Home](index.html)     2.9.8. Assign point-source locations to area sources
  ---------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------------------------
:::
