::: {.navheader}
2.19. Creating model-ready emissions using MOVES lookup tables
:::

[Prev](ch02s18.html) 

Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts

 [Next](ch02s20.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_concepts_merge_processing_moves}2.19. Creating model-ready emissions using MOVES lookup tables {#creating-model-ready-emissions-using-moves-lookup-tables .title style="clear: both"}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

Creating emissions with SMOKE using MOVES lookup tables (i.e.,
RatePerDistance \[RPD\], RatePerHour \[RPH\], RatePerVehicle \[RPV\] and
RatePerProfile \[RPP\] ) must always include merging the gridding
matrices from **Grdmat** and the chemical speciation matrices from
**Spcmat**. In addition, for RPD emissions based on VMT data by source
for CMAQ, creating the model-ready emissions must also include merging
with the hourly VMT from **Temporal**. The **Movesmrg** program performs
these processing steps using vector-matrix multiplication to combine the
matrices and the hourly emissions vectors to create CMAQ-ready gridded
and speciated hourly emissions input data.

If the overall SMOKE processing setup includes running the nonroad
mobile category (or other source categories) as separate runs (see
[Chapter 4, *How to Use
SMOKE*](ch04.html "Chapter 4. How to Use SMOKE"), then **Movesmrg**
cannot be used to combine all source categories into a single output
file. Instead, the [**Mrggrid**](ch06s10.html "6.10. Mrggrid") program
would combine the model-ready files from the individual source
categories; for example, from separate SMOKE (including **Movesmrg**)
runs for RPD, RPV and RPP mobile sources. There is no limit to the
number of model-ready files that **Mrggrid** can combine into a single
model-ready file, and the input files can be 2-D or 3-D.

**Movesmrg** can be used only for MOVES-based mobile SMOKE source
categories. It can use only one of each MOVES lookup table (RPD, RPH,
RPV and RPV) per run. You can run it to create model-ready files for
only one SMOKE source category (RPD, RPH, RPV, and RPP). The following
list indicates the modes in which **Movesmrg** can be run:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Run for MOVES RPD mobile sources based on VMT data by vehicle and
    road types to create gridded, hourly, speciated emissions in
    moles/hour or moles/second.

-   Run for MOVES RPH mobile sources based on vehicle hotelling
    (HOTELLING) hours activity data by vehicle and road types to create
    gridded, hourly, speciated emissions in moles/hour or moles/second.

-   Run for MOVES RPV mobile sources based on Vehicle population (VPOP)
    data by vehicle to create gridded, hourly, speciated emissions in
    moles/hour or moles/second.

-   Run for MOVES RPP mobile sources based on Vehicle population (VPOP)
    data by vehicle to create gridded, hourly, speciated emissions in
    moles/hour or moles/second.

-   Run to create daily total emissions report by county, by state, and
    by SCC in the unit of tons/day or tons/hour.
:::

Many processing steps in SMOKE are independent of one another; for
example, chemical speciation and temporal allocation can change without
affecting one another. This independence means that when one step
changes, another step does not need to be rerun in many cases. However,
because **Movesmrg** combines the data from all of these processing
steps to create the model-ready emissions, if one of the earlier steps
changes, then the merging step must also be rerun. This includes
rerunning **Movesmrg** to generate model-ready files, and if the
**Mrggrid** program was used, also rerunning that to merge data from
multiple source categories together.

**Movesmrg** also has the ability to input hourly emissions by day of
the week and reuse days that are the same. For example, it can input
separate hourly emissions files for Monday, a weekday, Saturday, and
Sunday, and use these four files to generate model-ready emissions for
every day in an entire month. This is accomplished using the
`MRG_BYDAY`{.envar} SMOKE option, described further in [Section 6.8,
"**Movesmrg**"](ch06s08.html "6.8. Movesmrg"). Special treatment can
also be given to holidays in this case, since users generally wish to
model holidays differently than other days.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s18.html)                      [Up](ch02.html)          [Next](ch02s20.html)
  2.18. Creating model-ready emissions     [Home](index.html)     2.20. Quality assurance
  --------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
:::
