::: {.navheader}
2.11. Chemical speciation processing
:::

[Prev](ch02s10s08.html) 

Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts

 [Next](ch02s11s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_concepts_chemical_processing}2.11. Chemical speciation processing {#chemical-speciation-processing .title style="clear: both"}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.11.1. Splitting inventory pollutants into chemical
species](ch02s11.html#d0e5594)]{.section}

[[2.11.2. Pollutant-to-pollutant
conversions](ch02s11s02.html)]{.section}

[[2.11.3. Checking the consistency of the speciation profiles with the
inventory table](ch02s11s03.html)]{.section}

[[2.11.4. Setting the order of the output
species](ch02s11s04.html)]{.section}

[[2.11.5. Creating speciation intermediate
files](ch02s11s05.html)]{.section}
:::

An emission inventory is built and reported for a variety of pollutants,
such as CO, NO~x~, VOC, PM~10~, and SO~2~. However, AQM chemical
mechanisms (e.g., CB6) contain a simplified set of equations that use
"[model species]{.quote}" to represent atmospheric chemistry. Therefore,
emissions processing requires speciation profiles to convert the
emissions in terms of pollutant values to the species used in the
photochemical mechanism. The purpose of the chemical speciation
processing program **Spcmat** is to produce matrices that contain the
factors for converting the input emissions pollutants to the model
species used in the AQM. These species include organics, PM species, and
toxics species.

The speciation matrices that **Spcmat** creates are used transform
column vectors of inventory-pollutant emissions into column vectors of
model-species emissions. As shown in [Figure 2.21, "Relationship of
inventory sources to speciation
matrix"](ch02s11.html#fig_concepts_chemical_processing "Figure 2.21. Relationship of inventory sources to speciation matrix"),
the speciation matrix consists of columns for each required
pollutant-to-species transformation and includes an entry for each
source. The entries are the factors needed to convert the inventory
pollutants into the model species. Note that speciation matrices depend
only upon the chemical mechanism and the inventory, and they are
therefore independent of the other factor-based operations for emissions
processing.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_concepts_chemical_processing}

**Figure 2.21. Relationship of inventory sources to speciation matrix**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Relationship of inventory sources to speciation
matrix](images\concepts\chemical_processing_html.jpg)
:::
:::

Chemical speciation processing addresses the following issues during
emissions processing:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Splitting inventory pollutants into chemical species

2.  Pollutant-to-pollutant conversions

3.  Checking the consistency of the speciation profiles with the
    inventory

4.  Setting the order of the output species

5.  Creating speciation intermediate files
:::

In the subsections below, we provide additional detail about each of
these steps, in the order in which they are listed above.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e5594}2.11.1. Splitting inventory pollutants into chemical species {#splitting-inventory-pollutants-into-chemical-species .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

SMOKE supports run-time, user-selected inventory pollutants and chemical
mechanisms. Before running the chemical speciation step, the only
relevant information that SMOKE has is information about the inventory
pollutants. After **Spcmat** runs, SMOKE then has the instructions for
supporting a specific chemical mechanism, and through the speciation
matrices, SMOKE will be able to generate model-ready emissions for the
specific chemical mechanism set by the user. The inventory pollutants
relate to the chemical mechanism because certain pollutants are needed
to create certain species, but the pollutants do not dictate the
chemical mechanism. As a SMOKE user, you must be aware of what
pollutants are required to generate the model species needed by a
chemical mechanism, so that all needed model species are created.

As we just mentioned, SMOKE learns of the species being created for a
given run through the **Spcmat** program. The chemical speciation
profiles input file (`GSPRO`{.envar}) is the data file that controls the
chemical species SMOKE will create. It contains the chemical speciation
profile code, the pollutant-to-species relationships, and both
mole-based and mass-based conversion factors. The format and contents of
this file are described in detail in [Section 8.5.2, "`GSPRO`{.envar}:
Speciation profile
file"](ch08s05s02.html "8.5.2. GSPRO: Speciation profile file"). Several
`GSPRO`{.envar} files to support many chemical mechanisms are available
for download; see [Section 4.2, "Test case
descriptions"](ch04s02.html "4.2. Test case descriptions") for more
information. How to select an existing chemical mechanism or specify a
new one, and how to ensure that the `GSPRO`{.envar} file is consistent
with other input files, are described in [Section 4.4.10, "Use a
different speciation mechanism or change speciation
inputs"](ch04s04s10.html "4.4.10. Use a different speciation mechanism or change speciation inputs").

**Spcmat** uses a cross-reference file to assign the chemical speciation
profiles to the inventory sources and pollutants. The cross-reference
file can assign the profiles using a hierarchy that is based on the
source characteristics; a detailed list of valid assignments is given in
[Section 6.15, "**Spcmat**"](ch06s15.html "6.15. Spcmat"). All
assignments are pollutant-specific, such that each pollutant for a
source can (and often should) use a different speciation profile. The
cross-reference file can also assign a default profile, and some
pollutants that have only one way of being speciated (e.g., mapping the
CO pollutant to the CO species) receive a default profile for every
source. When **Spcmat** makes default assignments, you can optionally
choose to have warnings given for all of these assignments using the
`REPORT_DEFAULTS`{.envar} option. **Spcmat** will also produce a warning
about any inventory pollutants that are not assigned a speciation
profile, because this will result in the emissions for that pollutant
being dropped by SMOKE.

**Spcmat** creates two speciation matrices during each run: a mole-based
matrix and a mass-based matrix. The speciation profile file
(`GSPRO`{.envar}) has different factors for mass- and mole-based
conversions. It is not trivial to convert between mass- and mole-based
factors for some chemical mechanisms like CB6, which use aggregates of
chemical compounds or parts of compounds to define the model species.
One cannot simply use a molecular weight to convert accurately, because
the molecular weight of the chemical species is different for every
speciation profile. This is because different proportions of chemical
compounds are present in each speciation profile, so even though the
species are the same, their molecular weights are different from profile
to profile. This is why SMOKE has the two speciation matrices. The
mole-based matrices are used to create the model-ready files, and the
mass-based matrices are used only to create the reports that require
tons, kilograms, grams, or other mass units. One peculiarity of the
mole-based matrix is that particulate species emissions cannot be
expressed in moles, so the units are still grams in the mole-based
matrices for particulate species.

Chemical speciation has both similarities and differences from the
aggregation and disaggregation that is performed during inventory import
(see [Section 2.9.7, "Aggregate or disaggregate toxics
emissions"](ch02s09s07.html "2.9.7. Aggregate or disaggregate toxics emissions")).
It is similar in that it involves separating one data value into more
than one data value. For example, inventory disaggregation can split
Mercury & Compounds (CAS=199) into elemental mercury, divalent gaseous
mercury, and divalent particulate mercury during inventory import of
nonroad mobile sources. Similarly, NO~x~ can be split into nitrogen
oxide (NO) and nitrogen dioxide (NO~2~) during chemical speciation.
Aggregation is also similar to speciation because it can map multiple
pollutants or parts of pollutants into the same chemical compound, just
as speciation can map parts of the different pollutants (e.g., HGSUM and
HG) to the same model species (e.g., HG). On the other hand, the two
concepts are different for three reasons. First, the pollutants
aggregated and disaggregated by **Smkinven** are still considered by
SMOKE to be pollutants, not species, to pass to later processing steps.
Second, chemical speciation allows multiple split factors to be used for
the same pollutant-to-species conversion, whereas inventory
aggregation/disaggregation uses just one factor across the whole
inventory for each pollutant-to-pollutant conversion. Third, chemical
speciation also converts the units of the pollutants (tons) to the units
of the species (moles for gaseous species and grams for particulate
species).

Speciation profiles do not necessarily conserve mass. For example, it is
possible to input 100 tons of VOC into the **Spcmat** program and have
it output factors that will produce 70 tons of VOC-based species or 110
tons of VOC-based species. The reduced mass occurs when some of the
pollutant's mass does not map to chemically reactive species in the
inventory. In some cases, the nonreactive (NR) species is included in
the speciation profiles so that the speciation profiles do sum to 1.
Increased mass happens because some compounds that are part of VOC may
have chemical reactivity associated with two model species. Since this
one part of the VOC is mapped to two model species, its mass appears to
be double-counted when summing the model-species mass. This is merely an
artifact of how the model species are defined and implemented in the
AQM, and the AQM is responsible for accounting for such issues in its
chemical mechanism.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s10s08.html)                      [Up](ch02.html)                          [Next](ch02s11s02.html)
  2.10.8. Creating the intermediate files     [Home](index.html)     2.11.2. Pollutant-to-pollutant conversions
  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------------------------
:::
