::: {.navheader}
2.9.8. Assign point-source locations to area sources
:::

[Prev](ch02s09s07.html) 

2.9. Inventory import

 [Next](ch02s09s09.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_assign_point_locations}2.9.8. Assign point-source locations to area sources {#assign-point-source-locations-to-area-sources .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Some area/nonpoint and nonroad mobile sources can be assigned
point-source locations instead of being assigned spatial surrogates. At
this time, the only allowable cases of this are for toxics processing
for nonroad mobile and stationary area/nonpoint sources related to
airport emissions processes. **Smkinven** has the capability to make
such assignments for any area source from both the toxics and criteria
inventories; the example file that comes with SMOKE for this purpose
(the `ARTOPNT`{.envar} file) only contains entries for the airport
emissions processes. [Section 4.2, "Test case
descriptions"](ch04s02.html "4.2. Test case descriptions") provides more
information about the example `ARTOPNT`{.envar} file provided with
SMOKE.

Because airport location data are readily available, this feature gives
users the ability to model airport-related area-source emissions at
airport locations, as opposed to spatially allocating them to grid cells
using spatial surrogates. Although spatial surrogates could be (and have
been) developed to reproduce the same or similar results as the
point-source assignments for models such as CMAQ, other models that
SMOKE may eventually support (namely ISCST3) require that point-source
inputs include the location coordinates. The area-to-point assignment
feature in SMOKE will support such a need. Note that for large airports
and a small grid, one may want to have the airport emissions gridded
using surrogate data since the airport can be large enough to encompass
multiple grid cells. Thus, the user should decide whether and when to
use this area-to-point feature as opposed to gridding using an airport
surrogate.

In SMOKE version 1.5 and higher, SMOKE can assign an area source to one
or more locations in a county. For example, when multiple airports are
in a county, SMOKE adds sources to the inventory and splits the
county-total emissions among the locations based on a factor provided in
the `ARTOPNT`{.envar} file. All sources remain with the area-source
inventory in which they started; they are not moved to a point-source
inventory. Any area sources that are assigned point locations are
spatially allocated using those locations, as described in
[Section 2.12, "Spatial
processing"](ch02s12.html "2.12. Spatial processing"). Sources that are
not assigned point-source locations are allocated in the standard way
using spatial surrogates.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s09s07.html)                               [Up](ch02s09.html)                                    [Next](ch02s09s09.html)
  2.9.7. Aggregate or disaggregate toxics emissions     [Home](index.html)     2.9.9. Fill in and check point-source stack parameters
  ---------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
:::
