::: {.navheader}
2.9.12. Convert units of emissions and activities
:::

[Prev](ch02s09s11.html) 

2.9. Inventory import

 [Next](ch02s09s13.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e4427}2.9.12. Convert units of emissions and activities {#convert-units-of-emissions-and-activities .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Different input formats in SMOKE have different emissions units. The
SMOKE intermediate inventory file stores all annual and average-day
emissions values from the ORL format in tons/year. These two formats
also support average-day emissions values, which are stored separately
in the SMOKE intermediate inventory in tons/day. The average-weekday
emissions values input are also stored in tons/year, but SMOKE sets an
internal variable called TPFLAG so that later SMOKE processing steps can
properly treat the computed "[annual]{.quote}" value as an average-day
value. The annual VMT data are stored as miles/year. In all cases,
**Smkinven** converts the units of the input emissions to the units used
in the SMOKE intermediate inventory. When this conversion involves a
day-to-year conversion, **Smkinven** considers leap years by using 366
instead of 365 days in the year. See [Section 8.2, "Inventory
Files"](ch08s02.html "8.2. Inventory Files") for information about the
units required for each inventory format.

When emissions are provided as average-day values from the ORL and FF10
formats and these emissions are then used in later processing steps,
SMOKE does not further adjust the emissions using the monthly profiles.
SMOKE assumes that the average-day emissions from these two formats have
been adjusted to a specific month already. In addition, when
**Smkinven** is configured using the `FILL_ANNUAL`{.envar} option to
fill in missing annual values using average-day values, **Smkinven**
sets the TPFLAG internal variable to indicate that monthly adjustments
should not be applied and that the "[annual]{.quote}" emissions should
just be divided by the number of days of the year before being used.
**Smkinven** makes this setting on a source-by-source basis.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s09s11.html)                                                              [Up](ch02s09.html)                        [Next](ch02s09s13.html)
  2.9.11. Optionally ensure that lat-lon coordinates are in the Western Hemisphere     [Home](index.html)     2.9.13. Set the weekday averaging approach
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------
:::
