::: {.navheader}
2.9.18. Import day-specific and hour-specific data
:::

[Prev](ch02s09s17.html) 

2.9. Inventory import

 [Next](ch02s09s19.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e4641}2.9.18. Import day-specific and hour-specific data {#import-day-specific-and-hour-specific-data .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Another function of **Smkinven** that only applies to point sources is
importing day- and hour-specific data. It can read three input ASCII
formats:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   [**CEM data format:**]{.bold} The CEM data format provides standard
    local time hourly emissions by ORIS identification code and boiler
    number. It was developed in conjunction with the Market Trading
    Division of EPA, and that division now provides this ASCII file
    format when the data are released.

-   [**FF10 format:**]{.bold}The FF10 day- and hour-specific format can
    be input to SMOKE using either the FF10 annual or average-day
    inventories.
:::

In addition to reading the files, **Smkinven** ensures that the records
listed in day- and hour-specific files match records provided in the
annual inventory inputs. This is necessary because SMOKE builds its list
of all point sources based on the annual and/or average-day inventory
files, and these are the only sources that will be listed in the SMOKE
intermediate inventory file. **Smkinven** requires that the year
associated with the date of the day-specific and hour-specific emissions
is the same as the base year. **Smkinven** generates an error message
when it cannot match a day- or hour-specific source with an inventory
source. Please refer to [Section 6.13,
"**Smkinven**"](ch06s13.html "6.13. Smkinven") for more information
about how **Smkinven** can be used to import these data.

**Smkinven** also can process the hourly CEM data in a more
sophisticated way. Hourly heat input from the CEM data are used to
allocate annual emissons to hourly emission data. First of all, the
utility program **CEMScan** must be run before **Smkinven**, see more
information at ([Section 5.3.4,
"**CEMScan**"](ch05s03s04.html "5.3.4. CEMScan")).
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s09s17.html)                   [Up](ch02s09.html)                       [Next](ch02s09s19.html)
  2.9.17. Report results of import step     [Home](index.html)     2.9.19. Processing hour-specific CEM data
  ---------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------
:::
