::: {.navheader}
2.5.2. I/O API files
:::

[Prev](ch02s05.html) 

2.5. Input and output file types

 [Next](ch02s05s03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e1632}2.5.2. I/O API files {#io-api-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

I/O API files are read and written by the I/O API library used by SMOKE
and other Models-3 programs. A library is a set of routines that have
been created and compiled for use by multiple programs. The I/O API
library, in turn, is built upon yet another library called the NetCDF
library. For this reason, I/O API files are also referred to as I/O API
NetCDF files. More information on both of these libraries is available
at the [I/O API web site](http://www.baronams.com/products/ioapi/).
[Section 12.4, "Compiling SMOKE for
UNIX"](ch12s04.html "12.4. Compiling SMOKE for UNIX") contains
instructions for obtaining the I/O API and NetCDF libraries.

The I/O API files cannot be viewed with a text editor because they are
binary files. These binary files use less disk space than ASCII files
containing the same data. They also allow much more efficient input and
output of the data, and the I/O API library provides many quality
assurance (QA) features useful for all input and output (I/O), including
I/O for emissions processing.

The basic I/O API file has a limitation of 120 variables per file. To
overcome this, SMOKE uses a wrapper called the FileSetAPI that creates
and manages multiple I/O API files when more than 120 variables are
needed in a single I/O API dataset in SMOKE. For example, if the SMOKE
speciation matrix requires 140 pollutant-to-species variables, SMOKE
will open by default two standard I/O API files: one with 120 variables
and one with 20 variables. This resulting "[file set]{.quote}" will be
treated by other SMOKE programs as a single file, which enables
processing of any number of pollutants and species in a single run,
despite the I/O API variable limitation.

Some I/O API files can be viewed by the [Visualization Environment for
Rich Data Interpretation](http://www.verdi-tool.org) (VERDI). In SMOKE,
any gridded output file from the **Smkmerge**, **Mrggrid**, or
**Smk2emis** programs can be viewed by VERDI.

In some cases, it can be helpful to directly view the contents of the
I/O API files in text form. This provides a quick way to check grid
settings, time period, or species names in the model-ready output files.
By viewing the text version of the model-ready output files produced by
SMOKE, you can easily confirm that the correct species have been created
or that the emission units are correct. To convert the I/O API files to
text, one can use a combination of the NetCDF-provided **ncdump**
utility and UNIX commands. The **ncdump** utility is created when you
compile the NetCDF library, or you can download it from the [NetCDF web
site](http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/packages/netcdf/). The command to
convert the files to text format is:

**`ncdump <infile>` \| **cut -c1-80** \> *`<outfile>`***

Replace *`<infile>`* in the command above with your input I/O API file
name, and *`<outfile>`* with your desired ACSII output file name. The
output file contains all the applicable data stored in the I/O API file
including grid information, time period, variable names, etc.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s05.html)                 [Up](ch02s05.html)      [Next](ch02s05s03.html)
  2.5. Input and output file types     [Home](index.html)     2.5.3. Model-ready files
  ----------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
:::
