::: {.navheader}
2.9.14. Assign country codes, years, and time zones
:::

[Prev](ch02s09s13.html) 

2.9. Inventory import

 [Next](ch02s09s15.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_concepts_assign_countries}2.9.14. Assign country codes, years, and time zones {#assign-country-codes-years-and-time-zones .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

For all source categories, **Smkinven** assigns country codes, years,
and time zones to inventory files that do not contain this information
in the inventory records.

Since most inventory formats do not include a column for country or
year, the country code and year must be provided in header fields in the
inventory. because most inventory formats do not include a column for
country or year. Users can provide data for up to 10 countries using as
many separate files, or separate headers within a single file, as
needed. The inventory file formats listed in [Section 8.2, "Inventory
Files"](ch08s02.html "8.2. Inventory Files") provide a further
description of these country-setting headers and the valid country
codes.

Users can also provide multiple inventory years in a single **Smkinven**
run. This is necessary in some cases when an inventory for one region
(e.g., Canada or Mexico) is unavailable for the same year as the
majority of the inventory region (e.g., the U.S.). **Smkinven** stores
the inventory year as part of the source attributes.

In addition to country codes and years, **Smkinven** assigns a time zone
to each source based on the county associated with the source.
**Smkinven** uses the `COSTCY`{.envar} or the `GEOCODE_LEVEL4`{.envar}
(if USE\_EXP\_GEOCODES Y) file to get this information. It matches the
county code from the inventory to the county code in this file. If a
county code included in the inventory is missing from this file, or if
the time zone is not provided in the `COSTCY`{.envar} or
`GEOCODE_LEVEL4`{.envar} file, **Smkinven** uses the
`SMK_DEFAULT_TZONE`{.envar} setting to obtain a default time zone for
sources in such a county. In some cases, the time zone set in the
`COSTCY`{.envar} or `GEOCODE_LEVEL4`{.envar} file is an approximation,
since counties that are bisected by two time zones have only the
predominant zone represented in this file.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s09s13.html)                        [Up](ch02s09.html)                                          [Next](ch02s09s15.html)
  2.9.13. Set the weekday averaging approach     [Home](index.html)     2.9.15. Handle inventories that have data for multiple years
  --------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------
:::
