::: {.navheader}
2.5. Input and output file types
:::

[Prev](ch02s04.html) 

Chapter 2. SMOKE Concepts

 [Next](ch02s05s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_concepts_basic_formats}2.5. Input and output file types {#input-and-output-file-types .title style="clear: both"}
----------------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.5.1. ASCII files](ch02s05.html#d0e1593)]{.section}

[[2.5.2. I/O API files](ch02s05s02.html)]{.section}

[[2.5.3. Model-ready files](ch02s05s03.html)]{.section}
:::

Before we describe more about the SMOKE processing, we first need to
explain the types of files you will encounter in this documentation.
SMOKE primarily uses two types of file formats: ASCII files and I/O API
files. In addition, the output file format for the UAM-based air quality
model is a Fortran binary file format. [Chapter 8, *SMOKE Input
Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files"), [Chapter 9, *SMOKE
Intermediate Files*](ch09.html "Chapter 9. SMOKE Intermediate Files"),
and [Chapter 10, *SMOKE Output
Files*](ch10.html "Chapter 10. SMOKE Output Files") describe all input,
intermediate, and output files, including the file format for each one.
Input files are files that are read by at least one core SMOKE program
(listed in [Chapter 6, *SMOKE Core
Programs*](ch06.html "Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs")), but are not
written by a core program. Intermediate files are files that are written
by a core program and read by at least one other core program. Output
files are files output by a SMOKE core program but not read by any of
them; these files include reports, log files, and the model-ready files
to be input to an air quality model. (Exception: one intermediate file
\[used by a core program\] is also an output file \[used by an AQM\]:
the `STACK_GROUPS`{.envar} file, described in [Section 9.3.2,
"`STACK_GROUPS`{.envar}"](ch09s03s02.html "9.3.2. STACK_GROUPS").) In
this section, we further describe the ASCII and I/O API files, and then
provide information about the two approaches for formatting the
model-ready output files produced by SMOKE (the CMAQ/Models-3 approach
and the UAM-based approach).

SMOKE's input files are primarily ASCII files, although a few I/O API
files are used. The intermediate files in SMOKE are primarily I/O API
files, although there are several important ACSII files as well. The
output files from SMOKE are primarily I/O API files and Fortran binary
files for model-ready emissions files, and ASCII files for reports and
logs.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e1593}2.5.1. ASCII files {#ascii-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[2.5.1.1. Column-specific ASCII
files](ch02s05.html#sect_concepts_column_specific)]{.section}

[[2.5.1.2. List-directed ASCII
files](ch02s05.html#sect_concepts_list_directed)]{.section}
:::

ASCII files are simply the text files with which most computer users are
familiar. The ASCII files input by SMOKE come in two structures:
[*column-specific*]{.emphasis} and [*list-directed*]{.emphasis}.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#sect_concepts_column_specific}2.5.1.1. Column-specific ASCII files {#column-specific-ascii-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

In column-specific files, the fields in the files must appear in certain
columns in the file. Each character on a line represents a single
column. The lines below represent a column-specific ASCII data file:

``` {.programlisting}
TEST 1 2 3

Additional data
```

The letters `TEST`{.literal} are in columns 1 through 4 of the file and
the numbers 1, 2, and 3 are in columns 6, 8, and 10 respectively:

``` {.programlisting}
123456789012345
TEST 1 2 3

Additional data
```
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#sect_concepts_list_directed}2.5.1.2. List-directed ASCII files {#list-directed-ascii-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

In list-directed files, the exact positioning of the fields on a line is
not important, but the order of the fields on that line is crucial. The
fields must be delimited (separated) by special characters called
delimiters; in SMOKE, valid delimiters are [**spaces**]{.bold},
[**commas**]{.bold}, or [**semicolons**]{.bold}. If a particular field
happens to contain any of these delimiters within it, then that field
must be surrounded by single or double quotes in the input file.
:::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s04.html)                     [Up](ch02.html)       [Next](ch02s05s02.html)
  2.4. Cross-referencing and profiles     [Home](index.html)        2.5.2. I/O API files
  -------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
:::
