::: {.navheader}
2.9.17. Report results of import step
:::

[Prev](ch02s09s16.html) 

2.9. Inventory import

 [Next](ch02s09s18.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e4578}2.9.17. Report results of import step {#report-results-of-import-step .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The **Smkinven** program writes several reports to help you determine
what it has done.

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  A summary by CAS number of the emissions in tons/year. This includes
    the number of inventory records; whether all, some, or none of the
    pollutants associated with that CAS code are kept; and the CAS
    description. This report is written to a special report file
    (`REPINVEN`{.envar}).

2.  A summary of emissions by CAS number and pollutant before and after
    the application of disaggregation factors based on the inventory
    table. This report shows, for instance, how chromium emissions get
    split out into different pollutants. The report is written to the
    `REPINVEN`{.envar} file.

3.  A listing of the first 10 nonheader records in each inventory file.
    This information is written to the program log file.

4.  For area-to-point conversions (from [Section 2.9.8, "Assign
    point-source locations to area
    sources"](ch02s09s08.html "2.9.8. Assign point-source locations to area sources")),
    a list of the SCCs that were converted, and the section number of
    the `ARTOPNT`{.envar} input file used to assign the point locations.
    This information is written to the program log file.

5.  For area-to-point conversions, a list of any SCCs included in the
    `ARTOPNT`{.envar} input file that do not also appear in the
    inventory. This report is written to the `REPINVEN`{.envar} file.

6.  For area-to-point conversions, a summary of emissions totals by SCC
    and pollutant before and after the factors are applied, and the
    total number of country/state/county codes affected. A separate
    summary is provided that reports emissions by state, SCC, and
    pollutant, but otherwise has the same information. These reports are
    written to the `REPINVEN`{.envar} file.

7.  For area-to-point conversions, a summary by SCC of the number of
    country/state/county codes being assigned area-to-point factors, and
    the number not being assigned those factors. This report is written
    to the `REPINVEN`{.envar} file.

8.  For import of CEM data, a summary of ORIS IDs and boiler IDs from
    the CEM data that have been matched to the inventory. SMOKE allows
    for multiple plant descriptions and country/state/county codes for a
    single ORIS ID that may be identical in their characteristics but
    different boiler IDS. They are treated as separate sources by
    matching boiler IDs. This report is written to the
    `REPINVEN`{.envar} file.
:::

More information about these reports can be found in [Section 10.5.1,
"`REPINVEN`{.envar}"](ch10s05.html#sect_output_repinven "10.5.1. REPINVEN").
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s09s16.html)       [Up](ch02s09.html)                                [Next](ch02s09s18.html)
  2.9.16. Set the base year     [Home](index.html)     2.9.18. Import day-specific and hour-specific data
  ---------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------
:::
