::: {.navheader}
3.2.3. Locations of input files
:::

[Prev](ch03s02s02.html) 

3.2. Directory structure

 [Next](ch03s02s04.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_dirs_location_input_files}3.2.3. Locations of input files {#locations-of-input-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Input directories, which contain SMOKE input files, are one of the
subdirectory types that make up the `$SMKDAT`{.envar} directory shown in
[Figure 3.1, "Basic SMOKE directories: the first three levels of the
directory
structure"](ch03s02s02.html#fig_dirs_basic_dirs "Figure 3.1. Basic SMOKE directories: the first three levels of the directory structure")
as `$SMK_HOME`{.filename}/data. In this section, we provide the
structure of these input directories.

[Figure 3.3, "SMOKE input files directory
structure"](ch03s02s03.html#fig_dirs_input_dirs "Figure 3.3. SMOKE input files directory structure")
shows all of the input directories that stem from `$SMKDAT`{.envar}. In
the diagram, note how some paths depend on environment variables set in
the Assigns file. For example, the `INVID`{.envar} environment variable
listed in [Section 3.2.1, "Example Assigns
file"](ch03s02.html#sect_dirs_example_assigns "3.2.1. Example Assigns file")
is defined by the user (as we will describe in [Chapter 4, *How to Use
SMOKE*](ch04.html "Chapter 4. How to Use SMOKE")) to label the inventory
name. This variable is used to build the name of the `INVDIR`{.envar}
directory as follows:

`INVDIR`{.envar} = `$SMKDAT`{.filename}/inventory/`$INVID`{.envar}

So, if a user decided to label the inventory "[nei99]{.quote}", then the
Assigns file would have `INVID`{.envar} = nei99 and the `INVDIR`{.envar}
directory would be `$SMKDAT`{.filename}/inventory/nei99. Another example
of this in the figure is the `SMK_M6PATH`{.envar} directory. The full
path depends upon the setting of the `MSCEN`{.envar} variable; if
`MSCEN`{.envar} is set to "[case1]{.quote}", then `SMK_M6PATH`{.envar}
would be `$SMKDAT`{.filename}/run\_case1/static/m6.

In some cases, we do not have environment variables associated with a
directory name. One example is the `$SMKDAT`{.filename}/inventory
directory. In these cases, we did not assign variables simply because
they were not very useful and we have to limit the number of SMOKE
environment variables. Most operating systems have a limit on the number
of environment variables (usually 256), so when the variables were not
really useful we did not assign them. If desired, you can add
environment variables to the Assigns file and/or the
`set_dirs.scr`{.filename} helper script.

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_dirs_input_dirs}

**Figure 3.3. SMOKE input files directory structure**

::: {.mediaobject}
![SMOKE input files directory
structure](images\dirs\input_dirs_html.jpg)
:::
:::

In the list below, we describe the purpose of each of these directories,
along with the file names and in some cases file descriptions for those
files that you may need to change. You can refer to [Chapter 8, *SMOKE
Input Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files") for more
information about each of these files (look under the logical file
names). [Chapter 4, *How to Use
SMOKE*](ch04.html "Chapter 4. How to Use SMOKE") provides step-by-step
instructions on how to create and install each of the files listed.

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   `ge_dat`{.filename}: This directory contains the cross-reference
    files, profile files, spatial surrogates, and other files that are
    likely to be shared among multiple cases of processing inventories
    with SMOKE. The logical file names for files included in this
    directory are listed here; many physical files could be available in
    the `ge_dat`{.filename} directory for each file type. For example,
    you may have dozens of surrogate files for different modeling grids
    and several speciation profiles for different model-mechanism
    combinations. More detailed descriptions of these files are in
    [Chapter 8, *SMOKE Input
    Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files"); descriptions of
    the example files provide with SMOKE are in [Section 4.2, "Test case
    descriptions"](ch04s02.html "4.2. Test case descriptions").

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   `BGPRO`{.envar}: The spatial surrogates file biogenics (for
        computing county-total emissions with **Smkmerge**).

    -   `SRGPRO_PATH`{.envar}: The location of the spatial surrogates
        file for nonpoint (stationary area)/nonroad and on-road mobile
        sources.

    -   `AGREF`{.envar}, `MGREF`{.envar}: The spatial cross-reference
        files for nonpoint (stationary area)/nonroad and on-road mobile
        sources. These two logical file names can all reference the same
        physical file.

    -   `ATPRO`{.envar}, `MTPRO`{.envar}, `PTPRO`{.envar}: The temporal
        profiles files for nonpoint (stationary area)/nonroad, on-road
        mobile, and point sources. These three logical file names can
        all reference the same physical file.

    -   `ATREF`{.envar}, `MTREF`{.envar}, `PTREF`{.envar}: The temporal
        cross-reference files for nonpoint (stationary area)/nonroad,
        on-road mobile, and point sources. These three logical file
        names can all reference the same physical file.

    -   `B3FAC`{.envar}: The BEIS3.14 normalized emission factors.

    -   `B360FAC`{.envar}: The BEIS3.60 normalized emission factors.

    -   `BIOSEASON`{.envar}: I/O API file indicating which grid cells in
        a domain are winter and which are summer for biogenics modeling
        purposes, for each day of the year or episode.

    -   `COSTCY`{.envar}: The country, state, and county information
        file.

    -   `GRIDDESC`{.envar}: The grid definitions file.

    -   `SRGDESC`{.envar}: The surrogate definitions/description file.

    -   `GSREF`{.envar}, `GSPRO`{.envar}, `GSCNV`{.envar}: The chemical
        speciation cross-reference file, speciation profiles file, and
        pollutant-to-pollutant conversion file (e.g., VOC-to-TOG
        factors), respectively.

    -   `HOLIDAYS`{.envar}: The dates that SMOKE should process as
        holidays and the day of the week to use for each date instead of
        its actual day of the week (the substitute is usually a Saturday
        or Sunday).

    -   `PROCDATES`{.envar}: The sequential/non-sequential
        user-specified dates that SMOKE should process.

    -   `PSTK`{.envar}: The point-source replacement stack parameters.

    -   `SCCDESC`{.envar}, `SRGDESC`{.envar}, `ORISDESC`{.envar},
        `SICDESC`{.envar}, `MACTDESC`{.envar}, `NAICSDESC`{.envar}: The
        descriptions of each known SCC, surrogate code, ORIS ID, SIC
        code, MACT code, and NAICS code.
    :::

-   `inventory`{.filename}: The location of all inventory files for each
    inventory case (as defined by the `$INVID`{.envar} environment
    variable in an Assigns file), land use data, and other data.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   `$INVID`{.filename}: This directory name depends on the name
        given to the inventory in the Assigns file. (This is the case
        for any directory name in the figure that is preceded with
        "[\$]{.quote}" to indicate that it is an environment variable.)
        The files in the subdirectories are specific to your inventory
        files and modeling case. This directory contains subdirectories
        for each of the major source categories by default:

        ::: {.itemizedlist}
        -   `area`{.filename}: Contains the nonpoint or stationary area
            inventories. Optionally, it may contain nonroad mobile
            inventories. Can include [*any*]{.emphasis} inventory that
            will be processed as a SMOKE area source (e.g. criteria,
            particulates, and/or toxics inventories). Files should
            include:

            ::: {.itemizedlist}
            -   `ARINV`{.envar} (raw area-source inventory file). If
                this is a list file, the files listed within it should
                also be included in this directory.

            -   `ARDAY`{.envar} (raw day-specific area-source inventory
                file). If this optional file is a list file, the files
                listed within it should also be included in this
                directory.

            -   `ARHOUR`{.envar} (raw hour-specific area-source
                inventory file). If this optional file is a list file,
                the files listed within it should also be included in
                this directory.

            -   `GCNTL`{.envar} (control packet file). The growth and
                control packet files for each growth or control
                scenario. The default naming scheme for these files is
                described in the default SMOKE scripts.
            :::

        -   `biog`{.filename}: Contains the gridded BELD3 and/or BELD4
            land use data. These files are listed in the Assigns files
            as `BELD3_A`{.envar}, `BELD3_B`{.envar}, and
            `BELD3_TOT`{.envar} for BEIS3.14. This directory could
            optionally contain the gridded BELD4 land use data if
            proceessing using BEIS3.60); this file is listed in the
            Assigns file as `BELD4`{.envar}.

        -   `mobile (MOVES)`{.filename}: Contains the on-road mobile
            inventory and other on-road mobile-specific input files.
            Files should include:

            ::: {.itemizedlist}
            -   `GCNTL`{.envar} (control packet file). The growth and
                control packet files for each growth or control
                scenario. The default naming scheme for these files is
                described in the default SMOKE scripts.

            -   `MBINV`{.envar} (raw on-road mobile-source inventory
                file). This is a FF10 activity inventory format for VMT,
                SPEED and VPOP inventory data. EAA - put in a link to
                input file description.. If this is a list file, the
                files listed within it should also be included in this
                directory.

            -   `MCXREF`{.envar} (mobile-source county cross-reference).
                For MOVES modeling only, contains the representative
                county assignments (see [Section 2.8.4.6,
                "Representative
                Counties"](ch02s08s04.html#sect_concepts_reference_counties_moves "2.8.4.6. Representative Counties")
                for an explanation of representative counties).

            -   `MEPROC`{.envar} (mobile-source processing file). For
                MOVES modeling only, contains the pollutants to be
                modeled by MOVES by the emission processes (e.g.,
                exhaust, evaporative, break and tire wear).

            -   `SPDPRO`{.envar} (speed profiles file). For MOVES
                modeling only, contains the optional weekday/weekend
                hour-specific speed profiles for use of MOVES on-roadway
                emission rates.
            :::

        -   `point`{.filename}: Contains the point-source inventory and
            other point-specific input files. Files should include:

            ::: {.itemizedlist}
            -   `CEMSUM`{.envar} (CEM summary file). When processing CEM
                data, this file contains a summary of a year's worth of
                CEM data and is produced by **CEMScan**.

            -   `GCNTL`{.envar} (control packet file). The growth and
                control packet files for each growth or control
                scenario. The default naming scheme for these files is
                described in the default SMOKE scripts.

            -   `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} (elevated-source selection
                configuration file). When using the **Elevpoint**
                program to select elevated and PinG sources, this file
                is required to specify the selection criteria.

            -   `PTDAY`{.envar} (raw day-specific point-source inventory
                file). If this optional file is a list file, which is
                typically the case, the files listed within it should
                also be included in this directory.

            -   `PTHOUR`{.envar} (raw hour-specific point-source
                inventory file). If this optional file is a list file,
                which is typically the case, the files listed within it
                should also be included in this directory.

            -   `PTINV`{.envar} (raw point-source inventory file). If
                this is a list file, the files listed within it should
                also be included in this directory.
            :::
        :::

    -   `other`{.filename}: Contains files that are associated with the
        various inventories, but which may be shared by more than one
        source category. These files are:

        ::: {.itemizedlist}
        -   `ARTOPNT`{.envar} (area-to-point file). Contains the
            area-to-point assignments by SCC with the point locations
            for each county in which a SMOKE area source will be
            assigned to point locations.

        -   `INVTABLE`{.envar} (inventory table file). Contains a list
            of the valid inventory pollutants and whether or not
            emissions associated with each pollutant should be kept when
            reading the inventory files, among other purposes.

        -   `NHAPEXCLUDE`{.envar} (non-HAP exclusions file). Contains
            the SCCs that will be excluded from a NONHAPVOC or NONHAPTOG
            calculation when integrating toxics and criteria
            inventories.

        -   `REPCONFIG`{.envar} (report configuration file). Contains
            instructions used by **Smkreport** to configure reports. The
            SMOKE installation includes only the `REPCONFIG`{.envar}
            files for the default reports included with the SMOKE
            default scripts.
        :::
    :::

-   `met/run_$METSCEN`{.filename}: This directory contains the
    meteorology files that are needed for running (1) biogenic
    emissions; (2) on-roadway and off-network mobile sources with MOVES
    using gridded, hourly meteorology data; or (3) point sources for the
    CMAQ model. Meteorology data are required in all of these cases.
    SMOKE can use output files from CMAQ's MCIP and MCIP2 meteorology
    processors or from the Meteorology Coupler (MCPL) processor. SMOKE
    automatically checks for the different variable names that may be
    used for the same meteorology data in the different file formats.
    See [Section 8.8, "Meteorology
    Files"](ch08s08.html "8.8. Meteorology Files") for more information
    about the meteorology data needed by SMOKE.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch03s02s02.html)                [Up](ch03s02.html)                                                      [Next](ch03s02s04.html)
  3.2.2. The basic SMOKE directories     [Home](index.html)     3.2.4. Locations of intermediate files for base and growth/control cases
  ------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::
