::: {.navheader}
3.3. How to change the default directory structure
:::

[Prev](ch03s02s06.html) 

Chapter 3. SMOKE Directory Structure

 [Next](ch04.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_dirs_change_directory}3.3. How to change the default directory structure {#how-to-change-the-default-directory-structure .title style="clear: both"}
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

The default Assigns files and scripts contain settings that allow users
to modify the directories that will be used when running SMOKE. The
basic structure has been developed to suit the needs of a variety of
applications, from short, single-grid, base case modeling needs to
annual, multigrid needs for many control strategies. The details of
working within the default structure by changing Assigns file and script
settings are provided in [Chapter 4, *How to Use
SMOKE*](ch04.html "Chapter 4. How to Use SMOKE"). The default structures
that we have described represent our recommended way of running SMOKE.
Although this structure has been quite useful for many people, it could
be a burden to others. In this section, we describe ways in which users
can change the default structure to meet their specific needs.

The SMOKE programs themselves do not require any specific directory
structure because all input and output files depend only on environment
variables, which can be set in any pattern. We have created a default
directory structure so that other users can benefit from our experience
in emissions modeling and using SMOKE, and to provide an initial
structure that is useful. With a few exceptions for intermediate files,
the SMOKE programs also do not require specific file names, only
specific environment variables; but again, we have configured SMOKE to
have a default structure for these names.

In principle, you can change the location of every single input file
that SMOKE uses. The Assigns files and scripts have been implemented
using one structure, but changing that structure is only a matter of
finding some other method of providing the file names to the programs.
This can include changing the Assigns files and scripts, or removing the
Assigns files altogether and creating a script that sets all of the
input and output file names and directories and calls the programs.
These modifications can be as extensive or minimal as needed to handle a
specific limitation or problem with the default structure.

If slight modifications to the structures are all that is needed, then
the best approach is to modify a copy of the default the Assigns file.
For example, if you wish to have the nonroad mobile sources'
intermediate and output files written to a different directory than the
stationary area sources' files, you would add an `NSCEN`{.envar}
environment variable to parallel the area-source variable
`ASCEN`{.envar}, and change the input, intermediate, and output file
locations and names to use this setting.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ -------------------- ------------------------------
  [Prev](ch03s02s06.html)          [Up](ch03.html)                 [Next](ch04.html)
  3.2.6. Locations of reports     [Home](index.html)     Chapter 4. How to Use SMOKE
  ------------------------------ -------------------- ------------------------------
:::
