::: {.navheader}
3.2.6. Locations of reports
:::

[Prev](ch03s02s05.html) 

3.2. Directory structure

 [Next](ch03s03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_dirs_location_report_files}3.2.6. Locations of reports {#locations-of-reports .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The report output directory names follow the same paradigm as the
intermediate and model-ready output directory names. "[Reports]{.quote}"
as defined for this directory structure are the report files output from
the **Cntlmat**, **Smkinven**, **Smkmerge**, and **Smkreport** programs.
More information on these programs can be found in [Section 6.2,
"**Cntlmat**"](ch06s02.html "6.2. Cntlmat"), [Section 6.13,
"**Smkinven**"](ch06s13.html "6.13. Smkinven"), [Section 6.14,
"**Smkmerge**"](ch06s14.html "6.14. Smkmerge"), and [Section 7.2,
"**Smkreport** Program"](ch07s02.html "7.2. Smkreport Program").

As shown in [Figure 3.4, "Locations of intermediate and output files for
SMOKE base case, basic
configuration"](ch03s02s04.html#fig_dirs_files_base "Figure 3.4. Locations of intermediate and output files for SMOKE base case, basic configuration"),
the two main report directories for the basic configuration are the
`data/reports/$ESCEN`{.filename}/scenario and
`data/reports/$ESCEN`{.filename}/static directories. The former
directory is for time-dependent reports, and the latter is for
time-independent reports. Because the `BSCEN`{.envar} variable is often
different from the `ESCEN`{.envar} variable, a different report
directory is available for the biogenic emissions:
`data/reports/$BSCEN`{.filename}/scenario, which contains the only
biogenic reports available (created by the **Smkmerge** program).

[Figure 3.5, "Locations of intermediate and output files for SMOKE base
case, advanced
configuration"](ch03s02s04.html#fig_dirs_files_advanced "Figure 3.5. Locations of intermediate and output files for SMOKE base case, advanced configuration")
shows the report directories for the advanced configuration. The
source-category-specific variables `ASCEN`{.envar}, `BSCEN`{.envar},
`MSCEN`{.envar}, and `PSCEN`{.envar} appear here, in addition to the
`ESCEN`{.envar} variable. In the default setup of SMOKE, **Smkmerge**
uses separate source-category-specific directories for the reports, as
defined in the `$ASSIGNS`{.filename}/setmerge\_files.scr script. For
**Smkreport**, the `$SCRIPTS`{.filename}/run/qa\_run.csh script sends
the default reports to the `$REPSTAT`{.envar} and `$REPSCEN`{.envar}
directories (which use the `ESCEN`{.envar} variable in their path
names). Both of these scripts are straightforward to change to
accommodate user preferences.

[Figure 3.6, "Locations of intermediate and output files for SMOKE
future-/past-year
case"](ch03s02s04.html#fig_dirs_files_growth "Figure 3.6. Locations of intermediate and output files for SMOKE future-/past-year case")
shows the report directories for the basic configuration of
future/past-year and/or control case reports. The `$REPSTAT`{.envar} and
`$REPSCEN`{.envar} directories use the year and/or control case name
(from `$fyr2`{.envar} and `$CNTLCASE`{.envar}) to reset the report
directory names, in the same way as for the intermediate and model-ready
output files.

The **Smkmerge** program has numerous logical file names that can be
used as output files (too many to list here). The reports include state
and/or county totals for each day run by **Smkmerge**. The form of the
output logical file names is `REP[A|B|M|P|E]G[T][S][C][_S|_L]`{.envar}.
The A, B, M, P, or E in the file represents area, biogenic, mobile,
point, or "[every]{.quote}" emissions, respectively. **Smkmerge** can
optionally report temporalized emissions (T), speciated emissions (S),
and/or controlled emissions (C). The \_S or \_L suffix represents
mass-based or mole-based reports, respectively (e.g., tons/day or
moles/day).

The **Smkreport** program uses logical file names in the
`REPCONFIG`{.envar} file to determine report names. The /NEWFILE/ packet
controls the logical file names, and the SMOKE script
`qa_run.csh`{.filename} (for default reporting) or the main run scripts
control the values of these logical file names and hence the file paths.
There are too many types of reports that **Smkreport** can create for us
to list them all here with their appropriate files. In general, the
time-independent reports go to the `$REPSTAT`{.envar} directory and the
time-dependent reports go to the `$REPSCEN`{.envar} directory.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch03s02s05.html)                                                            [Up](ch03s02.html)                                   [Next](ch03s03.html)
  3.2.5. Locations of model-ready output files for base and growth/control cases     [Home](index.html)     3.3. How to change the default directory structure
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------
:::
