::: {.navheader}
Chapter 3. SMOKE Directory Structure
:::

[Prev](ch02s20.html) 

 

 [Next](ch03s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.chapter lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#ch_dirs_files}Chapter 3. SMOKE Directory Structure {#chapter-3.-smoke-directory-structure .title}
------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[3.1. Introduction](ch03.html#d0e7820)]{.section}

[[3.2. Directory structure](ch03s02.html)]{.section}

[[3.3. How to change the default directory
structure](ch03s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#d0e7820}3.1. Introduction {#introduction .title style="clear: both"}
-----------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

The primary user interface for SMOKE is a series of UNIX scripts.
Because the basic SMOKE installation and instructions use these scripts,
a key factor in using SMOKE is understanding the directory structure
used for reading input files and writing output files. Additionally, it
is critical that users know where to find the run scripts and other
files that must be configured for a specific application of SMOKE.
[Section 3.2, "Directory
structure"](ch03s02.html "3.2. Directory structure") of this chapter
describes the default directory structure.

Because SMOKE is based on UNIX scripts, it can also be reconfigured to
use a different directory structure. This is useful if SMOKE is to be
used from the MIMS interface, incorporated into another modeling system,
or modified to suit the needs of a particular user. In [Section 3.3,
"How to change the default directory
structure"](ch03s03.html "3.3. How to change the default directory structure"),
we describe what must be done to reconfigure the default directory
structure to meet such needs.

In this chapter, we describe the default directory structures set
automatically by the Assigns file provided with the default installation
of SMOKE. We discuss a basic directory structure and an advanced
structure that follow the same approach and can easily be adjusted using
the Assigns file. For example, you can change a scenario name in the
Assigns file, and this will automatically change all of your
intermediate and output directory names. However, these two directory
structures are only examples; as noted above, SMOKE is flexible enough
to use any structure one wants to create. You could rework the Assigns
file (or even completely remove it) if so desired, although this would
be a much more complex process than changing a few environment
variables. We have developed the SMOKE default directory structure based
upon experience gained from many years of emissions modeling; we hope
that SMOKE users will find it useful.

In addition to a default directory structure, SMOKE comes with a test
case including example data files. [Section 4.2, "Test case
descriptions"](ch04s02.html "4.2. Test case descriptions") provides
descriptions about these files including where the files were obtained.
These descriptions are intended to provide you with some background on
the data files and a starting point for developing your own modeling
files.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
  [Prev](ch02s20.html)                                   [Next](ch03s02.html)
  2.20. Quality assurance     [Home](index.html)     3.2. Directory structure
  -------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
:::
