::: {.navheader}
4.4.14. Use **Elevpoint** for selecting elevated and PinG sources
:::

[Prev](ch04s04s13.html) 

4.4. How to use SMOKE

 [Next](ch04s04s15.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_scripts_use_elevpoint}4.4.14. Use **Elevpoint** for selecting elevated and PinG sources {#use-elevpoint-for-selecting-elevated-and-ping-sources .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The **Elevpoint** program can select elevated and/or PinG sources as
needed for some air quality models and configurations. You must use the
**Elevpoint** program in the following cases:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   You are running UAM or CAM~X~ including elevated point sources
    and/or PinG sources.

-   You are running CMAQ and want to select specific elevated sources or
    want to model with the PinG capability.
:::

The following steps must be taken to use **Elevpoint**:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Create a `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file.

    The PELVCONFIG file is the **Elevpoint** input file that controls
    what sources will be selected as elevated and/or PinG. [Chapter 8,
    *SMOKE Input Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files")
    explains the file format for this file and how to use this format. A
    example `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file provided with SMOKE (in the nctox
    case `PTDAT`{.filename} directory) contains additional instructions
    on setting up this file.

2.  Update Assigns file to use the correct name of the
    `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file.

3.  Set `RUN_ELEVPOINT`{.envar} to Y in point source run script.

4.  If using PinG sources, set `SMK_PING_METHOD`{.envar} to 1 in point
    source run script (otherwise, set to 0).

5.  If selecting specific elevated sources, set
    `SMK_ELEV_METHOD`{.envar} to 1 in point source run script
    (otherwise, set to 0).

6.  See model-specific settings in [Section 4.4.19, "Model for
    CMAQ"](ch04s04s19.html "4.4.19. Model for CMAQ") and
    [Section 4.4.20, "Model for UAM and
    CAM~X~"](ch04s04s20.html "4.4.20. Model for UAM and CAMX").
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [Prev](ch04s04s13.html)                [Up](ch04s04.html)     [Next](ch04s04s15.html)
  4.4.13. Change temporal processing     [Home](index.html)           4.4.15. Use BEIS3
  ------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
:::
