::: {.navheader}
4.4.17. Plume Rise Calculation for Fires
:::

[Prev](ch04s04s16.html) 

4.4. How to use SMOKE

 [Next](ch04s04s18.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_ptfire_emis_cmaq}4.4.17. Plume Rise Calculation for Fires {#plume-rise-calculation-for-fires .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Starting with version 2.2, SMOKE contains an approach for computing
plume rise for wildfire/prescribed fires using the Bluesky
Pouliot-Godowitch plume rise algorithm
(http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/conference/ei14/session12/pouliot.pdf). In
SMOKE version 2.2, SMOKE can compute hourly plume rise from precomputed
hourly heat flux, fuel loading and area burned data using the Bluesky
CONSUME model. The SMOKE preprocessor **Bluesky2Inv** that converts the
output from the CONSUME model into SMOKE-readable annual and daily
inventory files ([Section 5.3.3,
"**BlueSky2Inv**"](ch05s03s03.html "5.3.3. BlueSky2Inv")).

Starting with SMOKE version 2.3, SMOKE can compute hourly plume rise
from an intenally computed heat flux using area burned and fuel loading
data. This approach allows SMOKE to compute hourly heat flux based upon
daily area burned, fuel loading, material burned and a constant default
heat content (8000 BTU/lb) (Equation 1). The daily heat flux and
emissions are temporally allocated to hourly values based upon the
duration of the fire (begining and ending hours). However, if there is a
precomputed heat flux available as a daily inventory, **Smkinven** will
not internally compute the heat flux and drop the begin and end hours of
fire.

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Heat Flux (BTU/hr) = \[ Area Burned (acre/day) x Fuel Loading
    (tons/acre) x Heat Content (BTU/lb) x (2000lb/ton) \] / Duration of
    fire (hr/day)
:::

Detail information on how the fire emissions are calculated can be found
on the proceeding presented by [Pouliot et al.,
(2005)](https://www3.epa.gov/ttnchie1/conference/ei14/session12/pouliot.pdf).

The SMOKE plume rise requires two ORL formatted files for
wildfire/prescribed fires. The master \#ORL FIRE file ([Section 8.2.8.3,
"ORL FIRE
Format"](ch08s02s08.html#sect_input_ptinv_fire "8.2.8.3. ORL FIRE Format"))
contains the fire characteristics including country/state/county code,
fire idenfication code, geographic coordinate, fire name, heat content,
material burned and NFDRS code. The day-specific \#ORL FIREEMIS file
("[[Section 8.2.6.2, "ORL FIREEMIS Emission
Format"](ch08s02s06.html#sect_input_ptday_fireemis "8.2.6.2. ORL FIREEMIS Emission Format")]{.quote}")
includes daily pollutant emissions, area burned, fuel loading, optional
heat flux, and fire begining and ending time. Starting with SMOKE
version 3.7, **Smkinven** can process these master and daily fire
inventories with precomputed heat flux using current point FF10 formats,
\#FF10\_POINT file ("[[Section 8.2.8.1, "FF10
Format"](ch08s02s08.html#sect_input_ptinv_ff10 "8.2.8.1. FF10 Format")]{.quote}")
and \#FF10\_DAILY\_FF10 file ("[[Section 8.2.6.1, " FF10
Format"](ch08s02s06.html#sect_input_ptday_ff10 "8.2.6.1.  FF10 Format")]{.quote}")

Regardless whether the heat flux for wildfires is precomputed or
internally computed, the fire-specific plume rise algorithm converts the
heat flux to a bouyancy flux for use in the plume rise calculation. See
more detail at [Section 6.6.1.1, "Plume rise calculation for
fires"](ch06s06.html#sect_programs_laypoint_plume_rise_fires "6.6.1.1. Plume rise calculation for fires")

NOTE: SMOKE requires that the fire inventory pollutant names are copied
to the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) number column in the inventory
table (`INVTABLE`{.envar}) file (See [Section 8.10.4,
"`INVTABLE`{.envar}: Inventory
table"](ch08s10s04.html "8.10.4. INVTABLE: Inventory table")).

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  To compute plume rise for fires using SMOKE, following these steps.
    Add the fire inventory variables to the `INVTABLE`{.envar} file:

    ``` {.programlisting}
    HFLUX           HFLUX                    Y     1 N N N N   0 tons/yr
    HEATCONTENT     HEATCONTENT              Y     1 N N N N   0 tons/yr
    FUEL_LOAD       FUEL_LOAD                Y     1 N N N N   0 tons/yr
    ACRESBURNED     ACRESBURNED              Y     1 N N N N   0 tons/yr
    BEGHOUR         BEGHOUR                  Y     1 N N N N   0 tons/yr
    ENDHOUR         ENDHOUR                  Y     1 N N N N   0 tons/yr
    ```

2.  Run **Smkinven** with these settings,

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Set `RUN_SMKINVEN`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `IMPORT_AVEINV_YN`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `CHECK_STACKS_YN`{.envar} to N
    :::

3.  Do not run **Elevpoint**,

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Set `RUN_ELEVPOINT`{.envar} to N

    -   Set `SMK_ELEV_METHOD`{.envar} to 0

    -   Set `SMK_PING_METHOD`{.envar} to 0
    :::

4.  Run **Laypoint** with these settings,

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Set `RUN_LAYPOINT`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `FIRE_PLUME_YN`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `HOURLY_FIRE_YN`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `SMK_SPECELEV_YN`{.envar} to N
    :::

5.  Run **Smkmerge** with theses settings,

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Set `RUN_SMKMERGE`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `SMK_ASCIIELEV_YN`{.envar} to N
    :::

6.  Set these multiple program control settings.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Set `DAY_SPECIFIC_YN`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `EXPLICIT_PLUMES_YN`{.envar} to N

    -   Set `SMK_PING_METHOD`{.envar} to 0

    -   Set `QA_TYPE`{.envar} to part2
    :::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch04s04s16.html)             [Up](ch04s04.html)                                                      [Next](ch04s04s18.html)
  4.4.16. Change meteorology data     [Home](index.html)     4.4.18. In-line Plume Rise Calculation in CMAQ model (as of version 4.7)
  ---------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::
