::: {.navheader}
4.4.16. Change meteorology data
:::

[Prev](ch04s04s15.html) 

4.4. How to use SMOKE

 [Next](ch04s04s17.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_scripts_change_meteorology}4.4.16. Change meteorology data {#change-meteorology-data .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

To change the meteorology data, you must take the following steps:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Determine what format your air quality model will accept for
    meteorology data and convert data to I/O API format if needed.

    If you are modeling with CMAQ, then the data will be in the I/O API
    format created by MCIP or MCPL that SMOKE can accept. If you are
    modeling with UAM or CAM~X~, then you must check to see which
    meteorology format the model accepts. Some versions of these models
    can use the same I/O API format as for CMAQ, but some cannot.

    If your meteorology data are not in the correct format, then you
    will need to convert the data. There is currently no utility
    provided with SMOKE to convert the meteorology format needed by some
    versions of UAM and CAM~X~ to SMOKE input format.

2.  Ensure required variables are included in meteorology data

3.  Ensure meteorology data cover the correct time period

4.  Ensure meteorology data are on the correct grid

    As described in [Section 4.4.9.2, "Installing or changing spatial
    input
    files"](ch04s04s09.html#sect_scripts_install_spatial_inputs "4.4.9.2. Installing or changing spatial input files")
    step 5, check that the meteorology grid and modeling grid are
    consistent.

5.  Install meteorology data

    The meteorology data should be installed in the `$METDAT`{.filename}
    directory, as explained in [Chapter 3, *SMOKE Directory
    Structure*](ch03.html "Chapter 3. SMOKE Directory Structure"). The
    names of the files are up to you.

6.  Ensure that the meteorology data names match with the names in the
    Assigns file

    Edit the Assigns file and look for the `$METDAT`{.envar} variable.
    Ensure that it is consistent with the actual location of the
    meteorology files. Also check the settings for
    `GRID_CRO_2D`{.envar}, `GRID_CRO_3D`{.envar}, `MET_CRO_2D`{.envar},
    `MET_CRO_3D`{.envar}, and `MET_DOT_3D`{.envar} and make sure that
    the naming scheme for these files is consistent with your file
    names.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch04s04s15.html)     [Up](ch04s04.html)                      [Next](ch04s04s17.html)
  4.4.15. Use BEIS3           [Home](index.html)     4.4.17. Plume Rise Calculation for Fires
  -------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------------
:::
