::: {.navheader}
4.4.5. Changing output and intermediate directory names
:::

[Prev](ch04s04s04.html) 

4.4. How to use SMOKE

 [Next](ch04s04s06.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e13378}4.4.5. Changing output and intermediate directory names {#changing-output-and-intermediate-directory-names .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

As described in [Chapter 3, *SMOKE Directory
Structure*](ch03.html "Chapter 3. SMOKE Directory Structure") and also
[Table 4.1, "Variable in Assigns file for naming files and
directories"](ch04s04.html#tbl_scripts_variables_files "Table 4.1. Variable in Assigns file for naming files and directories"),
the output and intermediate directory names are based on user-defined
environment variables. The following list provides a checklist for all
of the possible changes that you might make and where to find more
information on how changes would affect your output and intermediate
directories. Make sure that the scripts that you are using to run SMOKE
use the same Assigns file in which you are making the changes described
in this list.

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Set the `INVEN`{.envar} setting in the Assigns file to the label to
    use in the output inventory path
    (`$SMKDAT`{.filename}/inventory/`$INVEN`{.envar}).

2.  Decide whether you want to use the same setting or different
    settings for `ABASE`{.envar}, `MBASE`{.envar}, `PBASE`{.envar}, and
    `EBASE`{.envar} in the Assigns file.

    If these are the same, the directory structure will be the
    "[basic]{.quote}" configuration, and if these are different, the
    structure will be the "[advanced]{.quote}" configuration; both
    configurations are described in [Chapter 3, *SMOKE Directory
    Structure*](ch03.html "Chapter 3. SMOKE Directory Structure").

    ::: {.orderedlist}
    a.  Set the `ABASE`{.envar} setting to change the paths for
        stationary area and nonroad mobile source intermediate and
        output files.

    b.  Set the `MBASE`{.envar} setting to change the paths for on-road
        mobile source intermediate and output files.

    c.  Set the `PBASE`{.envar} setting to change the paths for point
        source intermediate and output files.

    d.  Set the `EBASE`{.envar} setting to change the path for the final
        merged model-ready emissions from all source categories. This
        will also set the output path for QA reports of anthropogenic
        sources. See [Chapter 3, *SMOKE Directory
        Structure*](ch03.html "Chapter 3. SMOKE Directory Structure")
        for specifics.
    :::

3.  Set the `BBASE`{.envar} setting in the Assigns file to select using
    BELD3 or BELD4 data. See [Section 4.4.15, "Use
    BEIS3"](ch04s04s15.html "4.4.15. Use BEIS3").

4.  Set the `SPC`{.envar} setting in the Assigns file to change the
    output paths for all source categories.

    As described in [Chapter 3, *SMOKE Directory
    Structure*](ch03.html "Chapter 3. SMOKE Directory Structure"), the
    `OUTPUT`{.envar} directory is based in part on this `SPC`{.envar}
    setting. This setting must be coordinated with the selection of the
    chemical speciation mechanism (see [Section 4.4.10, "Use a different
    speciation mechanism or change speciation
    inputs"](ch04s04s10.html "4.4.10. Use a different speciation mechanism or change speciation inputs")).

5.  For future year modeling, the output paths will be changed
    automatically.

    As described in [Chapter 3, *SMOKE Directory
    Structure*](ch03.html "Chapter 3. SMOKE Directory Structure"), the
    `FYEAR`{.envar}, `CNTLCASE`{.envar}, `SMK_FUTURE_YN`{.envar}, and
    `SMK_CONTROL_YN`{.envar} script settings can have an impact on the
    output directory paths. When either `SMK_FUTURE_YN`{.envar} or
    `SMK_CONTROL_YN`{.envar} are set to Y, the output path will be
    changed as described in [Chapter 3, *SMOKE Directory
    Structure*](ch03.html "Chapter 3. SMOKE Directory Structure") for
    the growth and control case configuration.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch04s04s04.html)                  [Up](ch04s04.html)                  [Next](ch04s04s06.html)
  4.4.4. Set fallback stack paramaters     [Home](index.html)     4.4.6. Change which programs are run
  --------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------
:::
