::: {.navheader}
4.4.6. Change which programs are run
:::

[Prev](ch04s04s05.html) 

4.4. How to use SMOKE

 [Next](ch04s04s07.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_scripts_change_programs}4.4.6. Change which programs are run {#change-which-programs-are-run .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The example SMOKE scripts each have several `RUN_<Program>`{.envar}
settings, where the program names fill in the `<Program>`{.envar}
placeholder. For example, the `RUN_<Program>`{.envar} setting that
controls the **Smkinven** program is `RUN_SMKINVEN`{.envar}. In the
scripts, each `RUN_<Program>`{.envar} setting can be set to either Y for
"[yes]{.quote}" and N for "[no]{.quote}". When a `RUN_<Program>`{.envar}
setting is set to Y, the script will try to run the program associated
with the `RUN_<Program>`{.envar} setting. For example, when
`RUN_SMKINVEN`{.envar} is set to Y in the script, running the script
will cause the **Smkinven** program to run.

[Table 4.3, "List of `RUN_<Program>`{.envar} settings and situations to
set to
Y"](ch04s04s06.html#tbl_scripts_run_programs "Table 4.3. List of RUN_<Program> settings and situations to set to Y")
is the full list of `RUN_<Program>`{.envar} settings available and the
situations in which each needs to be run.

::: {.table}
[]{#tbl_scripts_run_programs}

**Table 4.3. List of `RUN_<Program>`{.envar} settings and situations to
set to Y**

  Setting                   Reasons to set to Y to run program
  ------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `RUN_SMKINVEN`{.envar}    Import raw inventory data and create SMOKE intermediate inventory file for area, nonroad mobile, on-road mobile, or point sources
  `RUN_SPCMAT`{.envar}      Compute speciation factors and create speciation matrix for area, nonroad mobile, on-road mobile, point sources.
  `RUN_GRDMAT`{.envar}      Compute gridding factors and create gridding matrix for area, nonroad mobile, on-road mobile, or point sources.
  `RUN_CNTLMAT`{.envar}     Compute growth factors and create growth matrix for area, nonroad mobile, on-road mobile, or point sources. Compute control factors and create multiplicative control and/or reactivity control matrices for area, nonroad mobile, on-road mobile, or point sources.
  `RUN_GRWINVEN`{.envar}    Calculate grown and/or controlled inventory and create SMOKE intermediate inventory files for area, nonroad mobile, on-road mobile, or point sources. Required when using SMOKE to create future-year inventories.
  `RUN_TEMPORAL`{.envar}    Calculate hourly emissions and create intermediate hourly emissions file for area, nonroad mobile, on-road mobile, or point sources.
  `RUN_ELEVPOINT`{.envar}   Select elevated and PinG point sources.
  `RUN_LAYPOINT`{.envar}    Calculate plume rise for CMAQ for any point sources. Calculate plume rise for UAM or CAM~X~ for explicit plume-rise sources (i.e., those sources with precomputed plume rise).
  `RUN_MOVESMRG`{.envar}    Create 3-d model-ready emissions by merging MOVES RPD, RPP and RPV Look-up tables with Spcmat and Grdmat for mobile sources.
  `RUN_SMKMERGE`{.envar}    Create 3-d model-ready emissions for point sources or all source categories together for CMAQ. Create 2-d gridded, hourly, speciated emissions for area sources, nonroad mobile sources, on-road mobile sources, point sources, and/or all sources combined in I/O API format. Convert units of biogenic outputs from **Tmpbio** from moles/hr to moles/s for CMAQ. Create ASCII elevated point source file for UAM or CAM~X~.
  `RUN_SMK2EMIS`{.envar}    Convert 2-d merged I/O API file with all low-level emissions from **Smkmerge** to binary input format for UAM or CAM~X~.
  `RUN_SMKREPORT`{.envar}   Create default and/or custom reports of processed emissions.
  `RUN_NORMBEIS3`{.envar}   Import gridded BELD3 landuse for use in creating BEIS3 emissions.
  `RUN_TMPBEIS3`{.envar}    Calculate BEIS3 emissions in gridded, hourly, speciated I/O API format.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch04s04s05.html)                                     [Up](ch04s04.html)                                       [Next](ch04s04s07.html)
  4.4.5. Changing output and intermediate directory names     [Home](index.html)     4.4.7. Set up country codes, state codes, or county codes
  ---------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
:::
