::: {.navheader}
4.4.3. Select which pollutants in the inventory are kept
:::

[Prev](ch04s04s02.html) 

4.4. How to use SMOKE

 [Next](ch04s04s04.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e13331}4.4.3. Select which pollutants in the inventory are kept {#select-which-pollutants-in-the-inventory-are-kept .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Users have the option of deciding at run time which inventory pollutants
will be kept from an inventory provided in ORL format. The
`INVTABLE`{.envar} file lists all possible criteria and toxic
pollutants. While the example files are fairly comprehensive, it is
possible users may need to add pollutants to this file using the
`INVTABLE`{.envar} file format description. Additionally, users can
change which pollutants are kept for further processing in SMOKE. This
is done by setting the Keep column of the file to Y for all pollutants
that SMOKE should keep, all pollutants in these files must have the Keep
column set to Y.

Both the run time and intermediate file sizes can be reduced by keeping
only the pollutants that you need to include for modeling purposes. In
the bulleted list below, we provide several examples of why a user might
want to change which pollutants are kept.

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   You want to model additional toxics not set up in the example
    configuration (e.g., atrazine, dioxin).

-   You want to import ROG emissions instead of VOC emissions from a
    criteria inventory.

-   You want to import only mercury for CMAQ modeling and drop all other
    toxic pollutants.

-   You want to add a tracer to the inventory and need SMOKE to output
    the tracer emissions to the model-ready file.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch04s04s02.html)           [Up](ch04s04.html)                  [Next](ch04s04s04.html)
  4.4.2. Use new inventory data     [Home](index.html)     4.4.4. Set fallback stack paramaters
  -------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------
:::
