::: {.navheader}
4.4.20. Model for UAM and CAM~X~
:::

[Prev](ch04s04s19.html) 

4.4. How to use SMOKE

 [Next](ch04s04s21.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_scripts_model_uam}4.4.20. Model for UAM and CAM~X~ {#model-for-uam-and-camx .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Make sure the chemical speciation is set for one of the UAM or
    CAM~X~ chemical mechanisms.

    This check involves the `SPC`{.envar} setting, explained in
    [Section 4.4.10, "Use a different speciation mechanism or change
    speciation
    inputs"](ch04s04s10.html "4.4.10. Use a different speciation mechanism or change speciation inputs").
    Please note that the files and setup needed for CAM~X~-PM are not
    available in SMOKE v2.1.

2.  Set the basic settings for UAM and CAM~X~

    In these settings, we will configure the system to select elevated
    point sources using the **Elevpoint** program, but not PinG sources.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Set `RUN_LAYPOINT`{.envar} to N

    -   Set `RUN_ELEVPOINT`{.envar} to Y (See [Section 4.4.14, "Use
        **Elevpoint** for selecting elevated and PinG
        sources"](ch04s04s14.html "4.4.14. Use Elevpoint for selecting elevated and PinG sources")
        for more information about running **Elevpoint** to select
        elevated sources)

    -   Set `SMK_ELEV_METHOD`{.envar} to 1

    -   Set `MRG_TEMPORAL_YN`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `MRG_SPCMAT_YN`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `MRG_LAYERS_YN`{.envar} to N

    -   Set `MRG_GRDOUT_YN`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `SMK_ASCIIELEV_YN`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `MRG_GRDOUT_UNIT`{.envar} to moles/hr

    -   Set `EXPLICIT_PLUMES_YN`{.envar} to N

    -   Set `HOUR_PLUMEDATA_YN`{.envar} to N

    -   Set `SMK_SPECELEV_YN`{.envar} to Y
    :::

3.  Optionally configure for PinG sources.

    In addition to different instructions in the `REPCONFIG`{.envar}
    file, the point-source run script should have the following settings
    in each of the following situations.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Set SMK\_PING\_METHOD to 1
    :::

4.  Configure approach for plume rise for explicit plume rise sources.

    Explicit plume rise sources (i.e., sources for which plume rise has
    been computed outside of SMOKE) require additional precomputed plume
    rise information, previously described for inventory data import in
    [Section 4.4.2.5, "Day-specific and hour-specific point and fire
    inventories"](ch04s04s02.html#sect_scripts_hour_day_invs "4.4.2.5. Day-specific and hour-specific point and fire inventories").
    In addition to these data for UAM and CAM~X~ modeling, the following
    settings must be made in the run scripts. These settings are in
    addition to the other configurations you need for the other point
    sources described above. [If the only point sources in your
    inventory are explicit plume rise sources, then use the settings
    described in steps 2 and 3 above.]{.remark}

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Set `RUN_LAYPOINT`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `EXPLICIT_PLUMES_YN`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `HOUR_PLUMEDATA_YN`{.envar} to Y
    :::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch04s04s19.html)     [Up](ch04s04.html)                                          [Next](ch04s04s21.html)
  4.4.19. Model for CMAQ      [Home](index.html)     4.4.21. Determine if a run worked correctly and troubleshoot
  -------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------
:::
