::: {.navheader}
4.4.12. Use MOVES for on-road mobile sources
:::

[Prev](ch04s04s11.html) 

4.4. How to use SMOKE

 [Next](ch04s04s13.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_scripts_use_moves}4.4.12. Use MOVES for on-road mobile sources {#use-moves-for-on-road-mobile-sources .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[4.4.12.1. Coordinating with other input
files](ch04s04s12.html#d0e15304)]{.section}

[[4.4.12.2. Changing representative
counties](ch04s04s12.html#d0e15397)]{.section}

[[4.4.12.3. Changing fuel month for representative
counties](ch04s04s12.html#d0e15407)]{.section}
:::

Extra files are needed for input to SMOKE when running with MOVES. These
files are:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   `MEPROC`{.envar}: Mobile emission processes

-   `MCXREF`{.envar}: Mobile representative county cross-reference file

-   `MFMREF`{.envar}: Mobile fuel month file

-   `MRCLIST`{.envar}: List of MOVES Lookup Tables for **Movesmrg**

-   `RUNCTL`{.envar}: Runcontrol file
:::

The `MEPROC`{.envar}, `MCXREF`{.envar}, and `MFMREF`{.envar} files are
installed in the `$MBDAT`{.filename} directory for the default SMOKE
configuration.

The subsections below describe how adjusting these files will allow you
to perform a variety of changes to the on-road mobile processing.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e15304}4.4.12.1. Coordinating with other input files {#coordinating-with-other-input-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The `MEPROC`{.envar} file must be coordinated with the
`INVTABLE`{.envar}, `GSPRO`{.envar}, and `GSREF`{.envar}. The
`MCXREF`{.envar} and `MFMREF`{.envar} must be coordinated with the
inventory. The following list indicates all of the things that you must
check for when creating any of these files.

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   The `MEPROC`{.envar} file must have all of the pollutants (e.g., CO,
    NOX, and so on) as an input file to **Movesmrg**.

-   If a pollutant that you want to model is not in the `MEPROC`{.envar}
    file, it will not be modeled by SMOKE correctly. All pollutants that
    you wish to include in the outputs must be in the `MEPROC`{.envar}
    file.

-   All pollutants in the `MEPROC`{.envar} file must also be in the
    `INVTABLE`{.envar} file with Keep = Y, including the
    `INVTABLE`{.envar} limitation that the file pollutant names are
    limited to 11 characters for on-road mobile pollutants.

-   All pollutants in the `MEPROC`{.envar} file must be available in
    SMOKE-ready MOVES lookup tables.

-   All process-pollutant combinations in the `MEPROC`{.envar} file must
    also be included in the `GSREF`{.envar} file. The format for the
    "[pollutant]{.quote}" entry in the `GSREF`{.envar} is \<emission
    process\>\_\_\<pollutant\>. Note that the joiner between \<emission
    process\> and \<pollutant\> is a double underscore. [**A single
    underscore will prevent the processing from working
    properly.**]{.bold} For example, running exhaust carbon monoxide
    must be included as EXR\_\_CO.

-   When integrating toxics HAPs and criteria TOG and using MOVES, the
    NONHAPTOG definition in the `INVTABLE`{.envar} file and
    `GSPRO`{.envar} files must be consistent.

-   The `MCXREF`{.envar} file should assign representative counties for
    all counties for which you provide VMT data in the inventory.
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e15397}4.4.12.2. Changing representative counties {#changing-representative-counties .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Representative counties have previously been explained in
[Section 2.8.4.6, "Representative
Counties"](ch02s08s04.html#sect_concepts_reference_counties_moves "2.8.4.6. Representative Counties").
The `MCXREF`{.envar} file assigns representative counties for each
county in your domain. To change the representative counties, this file
should be edited to assign different representative counties to each
county in the inventory. After editing this file, you must make sure
that no counties in the inventory have been left out of the file.
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e15407}4.4.12.3. Changing fuel month for representative counties {#changing-fuel-month-for-representative-counties .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Reference fuel month have previously been explained in [Section 2.8.4.7,
"Reference Fuel
month"](ch02s08s04.html#sect_concepts_moves_reference_fuel_month "2.8.4.7. Reference Fuel month").
The `MFMREF`{.envar} file assigns fuel month for each representative
county in your domain. To change the fuel month, this file should be
edited to assign a different fuel month to each representative county in
the inventory. User must meet the criteria to share the same fuel month
between representative counties.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch04s04s11.html)                            [Up](ch04s04.html)                [Next](ch04s04s13.html)
  4.4.11. Setup projection and control scenarios     [Home](index.html)     4.4.13. Change temporal processing
  ------------------------------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------
:::
