::: {.navheader}
4.4.7. Set up country codes, state codes, or county codes
:::

[Prev](ch04s04s06.html) 

4.4. How to use SMOKE

 [Next](ch04s04s08.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e13668}4.4.7. Set up country codes, state codes, or county codes {#set-up-country-codes-state-codes-or-county-codes .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

By default, SMOKE is setup to use the country, state, and county codes
based on a U.S. view. The codes assume a 3-tier system of codes as
described in [Section 2.3.4, "Country, state, and county
codes"](ch02s03s04.html "2.3.4. Country, state, and county codes"). The
three tiers allow specification of regions as follows:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   One digit for country code

-   Two digits for state codes

-   Three digits for county codes
:::

All codes provided in the emission inventories must be integers and must
match entries in the `COSTCY`{.envar} or
[`GEOCODE_LEVEL4`{.envar}](ch08s10s03.html "8.10.3. GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]: Geographical Input Files")
(if USE\_EXP\_GEOCODE Y) file, which is the master list of country,
state, county and tribal codes in any given SMOKE installation. The
format for the COSTCY file can be found in [Chapter 8, *SMOKE Input
Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files"). By default, the codes
are shared by all scenarios installed in the same SMOKE system (using
different `COSTCY`{.envar} or `GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]`{.envar} (if
USE\_EXP\_GEOCODE Y) files requires changing the Assigns file to not
share the same `COSTCY`{.envar} or `GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]`{.envar} (if
USE\_EXP\_GEOCODE Y) file among all cases).

The codes in the inventory must match the codes in this file. SMOKE
assigns time zones, daylight saving time exemptions, state names, and
county names using this file. Therefore, if one of the counties in the
inventory does not match a valid country, state, and county code in the
`COSTCY`{.envar} or `GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]`{.envar} file (if
USE\_EXP\_GEOCODE Y), it can cause errors in the modeling.

The following list provides the steps that users should take to ensure
that the file will work for their modeling case:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Check whether the countries with data in the inventory are included
    in the /COUNTRY/ section of the `COSTCY`{.envar} or
    `GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]`{.envar} (if USE\_EXP\_GEOCODE Y) file.

2.  Change country codes and names if necessary within the limitation of
    10 countries per file. If the country codes change, the
    country-specific SMOKE temporal profile assignments made by
    `ATREF`{.envar}, `MTREF`{.envar}, and `PTREF`{.envar} may no longer
    be valid.

3.  Check whether the states with data in the inventory are included in
    the /STATE/ section of the `COSTCY`{.envar} or
    `GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]`{.envar} file (if USE\_EXP\_GEOCODE Y) file.

4.  Change or add state codes and names if necessary to ensure all
    states are listed for all countries.

5.  Check whether the counties with data in the inventory are included
    in the /COUNTY/ section of the `COSTCY`{.envar} or
    `GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]`{.envar} file (if USE\_EXP\_GEOCODE Y) file and
    that all counties have assigned time zones.

    **Smkinven** will perform this function for you if needed and will
    list in the **Smkinven** log file all counties that are not included
    in the `COSTCY`{.envar} or `GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]`{.envar} file (if
    USE\_EXP\_GEOCODE Y) file or that do not have time zones assigned.
    If county codes have changed for merged or separated counties (e.g.,
    Miami/Dade county in Florida).

6.  Change or add county codes and names if necessary to ensure all
    counties are included in the inventory for all states and countries
    and that time zones have been assigned to each.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch04s04s06.html)                  [Up](ch04s04.html)                           [Next](ch04s04s08.html)
  4.4.6. Change which programs are run     [Home](index.html)     4.4.8. Set up list of known SCCs and ORIS IDs
  --------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------
:::
