::: {.navheader}
4.4.18. In-line Plume Rise Calculation in CMAQ model (as of version 4.7)
:::

[Prev](ch04s04s17.html) 

4.4. How to use SMOKE

 [Next](ch04s04s19.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_in-line_model_cmaq}4.4.18. In-line Plume Rise Calculation in CMAQ model (as of version 4.7) {#in-line-plume-rise-calculation-in-cmaq-model-as-of-version-4.7 .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Staring with version 2.5, SMOKE supports the calculation of plume rise
for point sources in CMAQ known as an in-line plume rise calculation.
SMOKE is used to select the point sources to reduce the CMAQ plume rise
treatment. In this section, we give a basic outline of how to run SMOKE
to output emissions for the in-line plume rise processing in CMAQ. To
prepare emissions for the CMAQ in-line plume rise calculation follow
these steps:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  For fires, the following two lines need to be added to the
    `GSPRO`{.envar} file (See [Section 8.5.2, "`GSPRO`{.envar}:
    Speciation profile
    file"](ch08s05s02.html "8.5.2. GSPRO: Speciation profile file")):

    `"0000";"HFLUX";"HFLUX";1;1;1`{.envar}

    `"0000";"ACRESBURNED";"ACRESBURNED";1;1;1`{.envar}

2.  Set these variables in the SMOKE run scripts.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Set `RUN_LAYPOINT`{.envar} to N

    -   Set `RUN_ELEVPOINT`{.envar} to Y

    -   Set `SMK_ELEV_METHOD`{.envar} to 2 (See [Section 6.3.3.2, "Input
        Environment
        Variables"](ch06s03s03.html#sect_programs_elevpoint_envar "6.3.3.2. Input Environment Variables"))

    -   Set `SMK_PING_METHOD`{.envar} to 0

    -   Set `MRG_LAYERS_YN`{.envar} to N
    :::

3.  **Elevpoint** to select the sources to receive the CMAQ in-line
    plume rise treatment. Create a `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file to group
    sources with nearly identical stack parameters to reduce the total
    number of plume rise calculations performed by the CMAQ in-line
    plume rise module. Non-fire sources with an analytical plume rise
    height greater than 38 meters are typically selected for in-line
    plume rise processing. The `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file used for CMAQ
    in-line processing of non-fire sources should be similar to the
    following example:

    SMK\_SOURCE P

    /SPECIFY ELEV GROUP/

    HT +/- 0.001 AND DM +/- 0.001 AND TK +/- 0.001 AND VE +/- 0.001

    /END/

    /SPECIFY ELEV/

    RISE \>= 38

    /END/

    For point source fires, such as the EPA ptfire sector, the following
    is an example of a `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file:

    SMK\_SOURCE P

    /SPECIFY ELEV GROUP/

    HT+/- 1.0

    /END/

    /SPECIFY ELEV/

    PM2\_5 \> 0

    /END/
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [Prev](ch04s04s17.html)                      [Up](ch04s04.html)     [Next](ch04s04s19.html)
  4.4.17. Plume Rise Calculation for Fires     [Home](index.html)      4.4.19. Model for CMAQ
  ------------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
:::
