::: {.navheader}
4.2.3. Example script files and their purposes
:::

[Prev](ch04s02s02.html) 

4.2. Test case descriptions

 [Next](ch04s02s04.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_scripts_example_scripts}4.2.3. Example script files and their purposes {#example-script-files-and-their-purposes .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The following files are currently provided with the SMOKE release. There
are a number of helper scripts. The only one that users may want to
change is the `qa_run.scr`{.filename} script to add configurations for
reporting. The helper scripts are:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   `cntl_run.csh`{.filename}: Runs the **Cntlmat** and **Grwinven**
    program. Sets the required `GCNTL`{.envar} file name depending on
    script settings, as explained in [Section 4.4.11, "Setup projection
    and control
    scenarios"](ch04s04s11.html "4.4.11. Setup projection and control scenarios").

-   `make_invdir.csh`{.filename}: Sets the `INVNAME1`{.envar} and
    `INVNAME2`{.envar} settings that **Smkinven** uses for creating the
    map-formatted inventory intermediate files.

-   `metcombine.csh`{.filename}: Runs the utility program **Metcombine**
    to combine the `METCRO2D*`{.filename} and `METCRO3D*`{.filename}
    files in the `$METDAT`{.filename} directory. This script creates
    files named `METCOMBO*`{.filename} in the `$METDAT`{.filename}
    directory.

-   `movelog.csh`{.filename}: Deletes or renames the log files,
    depending on the `AUTO_DELETE_LOG`{.envar} setting.

-   `qa_run.csh`{.filename}: Runs the **Smkreport** program

-   `smk_run.csh`{.filename}: Runs the following SMOKE programs:
    **Smkinven**, **Rawbio** (for both winter and summer runs),
    **Normbeis3**, **Spcmat**, **Grdmat**, **Metscan**, **Temporal**,
    **Tmpbio**, **Tmpbeis3**, **Smkmerge**, **Mrggrid**, and
    **Smk2emis**.

    Creates `PTMPLIST`{.envar} file for **Elevpoint** by assuming all
    files with the name pattern `ptmp*$PSCEN`{.filename}\*ncf in the
    `$SMKDAT`{.filename}/run\_`$PSCEN`{.envar}/\* directories should be
    included in the file.

    Creates the `METLIST`{.envar} and `RADLIST`{.envar} files for
    **Tmpbio** by listing `$MET_FILE1`{.envar} to `METLIST`{.envar} and
    `$MET_FILE2`{.envar} to `RADLIST`{.envar}. `MET_FILE1`{.envar} and
    `MET_FILE2`{.envar} are set in the Assigns file.

    Determines which speciation matrix is needed for **Smkmerge**, based
    on the requested units. If the `MRG_GRDOUT_UNIT`{.envar} setting
    contains the string "[mole]{.quote}" then the molar speciation
    matrix and molar gridded, hourly biogenic emissions are set to be
    used by **Smkmerge**.

    Creates the `FILELIST`{.envar} file for **Mrggrid** from the
    `MRGFILES`{.envar} setting in the calling merge run script.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [Prev](ch04s02s02.html)        [Up](ch04s02.html)     [Next](ch04s02s04.html)
  4.2.2. Script descriptions     [Home](index.html)      4.2.4. Script settings
  ----------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
:::
