::: {.navheader}
5.3.  SMOKE Utility Programs
:::

[Prev](ch05s02s04.html) 

Chapter 5. SMOKE Utility Tools

 [Next](ch05s03s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#section_sm_utilities}5.3.  SMOKE Utility Programs {#smoke-utility-programs .title style="clear: both"}
-----------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[5.3.1. Overview](ch05s03.html#d0e18654)]{.section}

[[5.3.2. **Aggwndw**](ch05s03s02.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.3. **BlueSky2Inv**](ch05s03s03.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.4. **CEMScan**](ch05s03s04.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.5. **Gentpro**](ch05s03s05.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.6. **Geofac**](ch05s03s06.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.7. **Inlineto2D**](ch05s03s07.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.8. **Invsplit**](ch05s03s08.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.9. **Layalloc**](ch05s03s09.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.10. **Metcombine**](ch05s03s10.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.11. **Metscan**](ch05s03s11.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.12. **Pktreduc**](ch05s03s12.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.13. **Smk2emis**](ch05s03s13.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.14. **Surgtool**](ch05s03s14.html)]{.section}

[[5.3.15. **Uam2ncf**](ch05s03s15.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e18654}5.3.1. Overview {#overview .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

There are thirteen programs covered in this section:

[**Aggwndw**](ch05s03s02.html "5.3.2. Aggwndw") is a utility program
that can aggregate or window emissions from an I/O API file to a new
grid.

[**BlueSky2Inv**](ch05s03s03.html "5.3.3. BlueSky2Inv") converts output
files from the BlueSky fire modeling framework into inventory files that
SMOKE can read.

The [**CEMScan**](ch05s03s04.html "5.3.4. CEMScan") program calculates
summed annual NOx emissions, SO~2~ emissions, heat input, gross load,
and steam load from a year's worth of CEM data. The output from
**CEMScan** is used by **Smkinven** to calculate hourly emissions from
annual inventory data when processing CEM data.

[**Gentpro**](ch05s03s05.html "5.3.5. Gentpro") allows the user to use
county average meteorology data to estimate temporal profiles of
emissions.

[**Geofac**](ch05s03s06.html "5.3.6. Geofac") adjusts SMOKE hourly,
gridded, speciated emissions in based on a specified geographic region

[**Invsplit**](ch05s03s08.html "5.3.8. Invsplit") splits an ORL
inventory into separate inventories by state, grouping the states as
indicated by your inputs.

[**Inlineto2D**](ch05s03s07.html "5.3.7. Inlineto2D") merge CMAQ Inline
2D emissions with stack group emissions.

[**Layalloc**](ch05s03s09.html "5.3.9. Layalloc") vertically
redistributes hourly, gridded, speciated pre-gridded emissions from
emission sources that could emit above the surface layer (e.g. Energy
and Industrial sources) based on an user-defined layer fraction input.

[**Metcombine**](ch05s03s10.html "5.3.10. Metcombine") combines 2-D
gridded meteorology data with the 1st layer of 3-D gridded meteorology
data to create input files for **Met4moves**.

[**Metscan**](ch05s03s11.html "5.3.11. Metscan") reads up to one year's
worth of first-layer I/O API meteorology data (whether 2-D or 3-D files)
and determine the first and last freeze dates of the year, for use by
**Tmpbeis3** in setting winter/summer emission factors by day and grid
cell.

[**Pktreduc**](ch05s03s12.html "5.3.12. Pktreduc") reduces the size of
/PROJECTION/ packets, but keeps the same information by identifying and
implementing state defaults where none already exist in the file.

[**Smk2emis**](ch05s03s13.html "5.3.13. Smk2emis") converts SMOKE netCDF
files into a UAM- or CAM~X~-ready emissions file.

[**Surgtool**](ch05s03s14.html "5.3.14. Surgtool") inputs
SMOKE-formatted gridding surrogates for a "[fine]{.quote}" input grid
and outputs a surrogate file for a "[coarse]{.quote}" output grid. It
produces approximate "[coarse]{.quote}" grid surrogates, the accuracy of
which depends on how fine the resolution of the input grid is relative
to that of the output grid.

[**Uam2ncf**](ch05s03s15.html "5.3.15. Uam2ncf") converts UAM-ready
emissions files into I/O API format.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [Prev](ch05s02s04.html)                   [Up](ch05.html)       [Next](ch05s03s02.html)
  5.2.4. MOVES Post-processing scripts     [Home](index.html)          5.3.2. **Aggwndw**
  --------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
:::
