::: {.navheader}
5.2. MOVES Utility Scripts
:::

[Prev](ch05.html) 

Chapter 5. SMOKE Utility Tools

 [Next](ch05s02s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#section_moves_utilities}5.2. MOVES Utility Scripts {#moves-utility-scripts .title style="clear: both"}
------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[5.2.1. Overview](ch05s02.html#d0e17429)]{.section}

[[5.2.2. MOVES Driver Scripts](ch05s02s02.html)]{.section}

[[5.2.3. Run MOVES Model](ch05s02s03.html)]{.section}

[[5.2.4. MOVES Post-processing scripts](ch05s02s04.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e17429}5.2.1. Overview {#overview .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The MOVES utility scripts are designed to assist the user by automating
the proper use of using MOVES emission rate calculations for the purpose
of estimating mobile-source emissions for air quality modeling. The
MOVES default database has over 100 different tables that store
lookup/reference information, conversions/adjustment factors, emissions
data, and activity data. MOVES uses MySQL databases to store user
inputs, intermediate results and final outputs. The MOVES utility
scripts consist of 1) MOVES Driver script and 2) MOVES Post-processing
scripts. These scripts are run after the meteorological data processor
program (**Met4moves**) which prepares the spatially and temporally
averaged temperatures and relative humidity data used as meteorological
input conditions for MOVES and SMOKE using the Meteorology-Chemistry
Interface Processor (MCIP) output files.

The MOVES Driver script (**Runspec\_generator.pl**) creates data
importer files and importer script and the MOVES batch run script which
specifies the characteristic of the particular scenario to be modeled.

The MOVES Post-processing script (**Moves2smkEF.pl**) formats the MOVES
emission rate lookup tables for SMOKE. The second MOVES Post-processing
script (**gen\_8digit\_scc.pl**) generates an SCC mapping file used when
importing activity data in **Smkinven**. After the MOVES utility scripts
are completed, the SMOKE postprocessing program (**Movesmrg**) estimates
emissions from mobile sources using the SMOKE formatted MOVES lookup
tables (RPD, RPP, RPV, and RPH) output generated by the MOVES utility
scripts and meteorology data from **Met4moves**.

**Movesmrg** creates hourly, gridded, speciated air quality model-ready
input files. Information about key concepts related to the MOVES utility
scripts including Representative Counties, Fuels Months, and Emissions
Processes are covered in [Section 2.8.4.6, "Representative
Counties"](ch02s08s04.html#sect_concepts_reference_counties_moves "2.8.4.6. Representative Counties")
and [Section 2.8.4.7, "Reference Fuel
month"](ch02s08s04.html#sect_concepts_moves_reference_fuel_month "2.8.4.7. Reference Fuel month")
and [Section 2.8.4.9, " MOVES Emission Processes by Emission Rate
Tables"](ch02s08s04.html#sect_concepts_moves_emission_processes "2.8.4.9.  MOVES Emission Processes by Emission Rate Tables")
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------
  [Prev](ch05.html)                   [Up](ch05.html)           [Next](ch05s02s02.html)
  Chapter 5. SMOKE Utility Tools     [Home](index.html)     5.2.2. MOVES Driver Scripts
  --------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------
:::
