::: {.navheader}
6.3. **Elevpoint**
:::

[Prev](ch06s02s03.html) 

Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs

 [Next](ch06s03s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_programs_elevpoint}6.3. **Elevpoint** {#elevpoint .title style="clear: both"}
----------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.3.1. Description](ch06s03.html#d0e23099)]{.section}

[[6.3.2. Processing Order](ch06s03s02.html)]{.section}

[[6.3.3. Files and Environment Variables](ch06s03s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e23099}6.3.1. Description {#description .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.3.1.1. Plume rise
calculation](ch06s03.html#sect_programs_elevpoint_briggs)]{.section}

[[6.3.1.2. Summary](ch06s03.html#d0e23314)]{.section}
:::

[*Processing categories:*]{.emphasis} point

The **Elevpoint** program is used to select elevated point sources and
to prepare certain input files for special elevated source or PinG
processing. **Elevpoint** selects the major point source (MPS) and major
elevated point source emissions (MEPSE) records using a variety of
criteria, such as stack parameters, emissions, and analytical plume rise
calculations. (Note that MEPSE is another name for a PinG source.)

**Elevpoint** distinguishes PinG sources from non-PinG elevated sources
based on emission thresholds, highest day-specific emissions rank
compared to other sources, analytical plume rise, and/or stack
parameters such as height. **Elevpoint** flags sources as either
elevated or PinG based on instructions given in an input configuration
file, the `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file. **Elevpoint** also permits grouping
of stacks at the same facility if the stack parameters are similar,
within tolerances you specify with the `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file; the
result is call a "[stack group]{.quote}". For more information on
selecting and grouping elevated and PinG sources, refer to
[Section 8.9.3.1, "`PELVCONFIG`{.envar}: Elevated source selection
file"](ch08s09s03.html#sect_input_pelvconfig "8.9.3.1. PELVCONFIG: Elevated source selection file").

**Elevpoint** can also be used to calculate plume rise using the
"[cutoff]{.quote}" method. This is the method traditionally used to
prepare input files to the air quality models UAM-IV, UAM-V and CAM~X~,
which require a separate model-ready input file containing emissions for
elevated point sources. Below, we refer to this path as the "[UAM
style]{.quote}" of emissions processing.

For the cutoff method, the **Elevpoint** program uses the stack
parameters of the point sources and estimates the plume rise for each
source using a Briggs analytical solution (but not actual gridded
meteorology data); the details of this process are given in
[Section 6.3.1.1, "Plume rise
calculation"](ch06s03.html#sect_programs_elevpoint_briggs "6.3.1.1. Plume rise calculation").
**Elevpoint** then records all of the sources that have an estimated
plume rise greater than a specified cutoff as defined in the
`PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file using the "[RISE]{.quote}" instruction. Using
the `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file, this cutoff method can be combined with
selection of elevated sources based on stack parameters and/or emissions
values.

When emissions values are part of these selection criteria,
**Elevpoint** computes the maximum daily emissions using one or more
`PTMP`{.envar} files. **Elevpoint** computes the maximum daily value of
any pollutant used as a selection criterion across all of the days that
you input. You have the option of providing either a list of paths and
file names of one or more `PTMP`{.envar} files, or a single
`PTMP`{.envar} file. The day or days that **Elevpoint** uses to compute
each source's maximum depends on the time zone in which the source
resides, based on the county and the `COSTCY`{.envar} file setting for
the time zone (the time zone is stored in the `PNTS`{.envar} file output
from **Smkinven**). When using emissions values as a selection
criterion, **Elevpoint** only considers sources that are within the grid
domain.

**Elevpoint** also creates a report file that contains all SMOKE sources
that have been selected as elevated, their source characteristics
(including stack parameters), emissions values used as selection
criteria, stack-group numbers, status as either elevated or PinG, and
which selection criteria were used to assign the status to the source.
The report does not include any low-level sources. This report is in
semicolon-delimited format for easier reading into a spreadsheet for
sorting, review, and making charts.

The **Elevpoint** program is not needed if the environment variables
`SMK_PING_METHOD`{.envar} and `SMK_ELEV_METHOD`{.envar} are both set to
0.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#sect_programs_elevpoint_briggs}6.3.1.1. Plume rise calculation {#plume-rise-calculation .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The Briggs solution is documented in the following:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Briggs, Gary A., 1971: Some Recent Analyses of Plume Rise
    Observation, pp. 1029-1032 in [*Proceedings of the Second
    International Clean Air Congress*]{.emphasis}, edited by H. M.
    Englun and W. T. Beery. Academic Press, New York.

2.  Briggs, Gary A., 1972: Discussion on Chimney Plumes in Neutral and
    Stable Surroundings, [*Atmos. Environ.*]{.emphasis} 6, 507-510.
:::

The following formula is used in **Elevpoint**:

F = 0.25 x G x V~S~ x D~S~^2^ x (T~S~ - T)/T~S~

For F less than 55,

Plume rise = H~S~ + 21.31311057 x F^0.75^/U

Otherwise,

Plume rise = H~S~ + 38.87776061 x F^0.6^/U

where

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   F = Bouyancy flux (m^4^/s^3^)
-   G = Mean gravitational acceleration (9.80665 m/s^2^)
-   V~S~ = Stack gas exit velocity (m/s)
-   D~S~ = Inside stack diameter (m)
-   T~S~ = Stack gas temperature (K)
-   T = Default ambient air temperature (293 K)
-   U = Default wind speed (2 m/s)
-   H~S~ = Physical stack height (m)
:::

This represents an improved algorithm over the original so that the
discontinuity at F = 55 no longer exists. Now, the second term in the
plume rise formula approaches 595 as F approaches 55 from either side.
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e23314}6.3.1.2. Summary {#summary .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

In summary, **Elevpoint** permits the following combinations of source
selection and processing:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Identify MEPSE/PinG sources for outputting to special PinG files
    only (all other point sources will be treated as potentially
    elevated by **Laypoint**).

-   Identify elevated sources (MPSs) with the `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file,
    which might include using the cutoff method alone or in combination
    with other criteria.

-   Identify elevated sources (MPSs) and MEPSE/PinG sources with the
    `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file with cutoff method (**Laypoint** not used)
    and identify MEPSE/PinG sources with the `PSPLIT`{.envar} file for
    outputting to special PinG files.
:::
:::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [Prev](ch06s02s03.html)                     [Up](ch06.html)       [Next](ch06s03s02.html)
  6.2.3. Files and Environment Variables     [Home](index.html)     6.3.2. Processing Order
  ----------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
:::
