::: {.navheader}
6.10. **Mrggrid**
:::

[Prev](ch06s09s03.html) 

Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs

 [Next](ch06s10s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_programs_mrggrid}6.10. **Mrggrid** {#mrggrid .title style="clear: both"}
-------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.10.1. Description](ch06s10.html#d0e26735)]{.section}

[[6.10.2. Processing Order](ch06s10s02.html)]{.section}

[[6.10.3. Files and Environment Variables](ch06s10s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e26735}6.10.1. Description {#description .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

[*Processing categories:*]{.emphasis} all

The purpose of the **Mrggrid** program is to combine gridded emission
data files, which can be speciated or nonspeciated, and hourly or
time-independent. It can combine any number of 3-D emissions files with
any number of 2-D emissions files. In fact, this program will work with
any I/O API NetCDF gridded files and need not be used only for emissions
files. The program merges whatever data variables are in the input
files. These files can each have different sets of data variables;
**Mrggrid** will sum values only for each variable that is common to two
or more files.

**Mrggrid** checks several features of the input files to ensure that
the data in these files are appropriate to be merged together. All input
files must have use the same time step. **Mrggrid** compares the units
of the variables with the same name and it creates an error message when
the units are not identical. It is not sufficient to have units that are
the same in meaning but different in syntax. For example, although
tons/hour and tons/hr represent the same units, **Mrggrid** will not
recognize this because of the different syntax. The user must resolve
unit discrepancies before running the program. In addition, **Mrggrid**
compares the horizontal grid settings across all 2-D and 3-D files, and
these settings must be identical in all respects (e.g., number of cells,
grid cell size, grid projection). Finally, **Mrggrid** checks the layer
structures across multiple 3-D files. The 3-D files can have a different
number of layers, as long as any layer common to two or more files has
the same thickness in each of the files; **Mrggrid** also checks the I/O
API type of vertical structures and top height, and these must be
identical across all 3-D files.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
  [Prev](ch06s09s03.html)                     [Up](ch06.html)        [Next](ch06s10s02.html)
  6.9.3. Files and Environment Variables     [Home](index.html)     6.10.2. Processing Order
  ----------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
:::
