::: {.navheader}
6.13.3. Files and Environment Variables
:::

[Prev](ch06s13s02.html) 

6.13. **Smkinven**

 [Next](ch06s14.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e27866}6.13.3. Files and Environment Variables {#files-and-environment-variables .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.13.3.1. Input Files](ch06s13s03.html#d0e28053)]{.section}

[[6.13.3.2. Input Environment
Variables](ch06s13s03.html#sect_programs_smkinven_envar)]{.section}

[[6.13.3.3. Output Files](ch06s13s03.html#d0e28876)]{.section}
:::

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_programs_smkinven_area}

**Figure 6.14. Smkinven input and output files for area sources**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Smkinven input and output files for area
sources](images\programs\smkinven_area_html.jpg)
:::
:::

[Figure 6.14, "Smkinven input and output files for area
sources"](ch06s13s03.html#fig_programs_smkinven_area "Figure 6.14. Smkinven input and output files for area sources")
shows the input and output files for **Smkinven** for area sources. If
importing gridded data, **Smkinven** reads the `AG`{.envar} file; for
the annual inventory, **Smkinven** reads the `ARINV`{.envar} file. The
`ARTOPNT`{.envar} file is used to assign point-source locations to area
sources, and either the `COSTCY`{.envar} or `GEOCODE_LEVEL4`{.envar}
file is used to assign time zones to the annual inventory data.
**Smkinven** also uses the inventory data table (`INVTABLE`{.envar}),
the optional NONHAP exclusions file (`NHAPEXCLUDE`{.envar}), and the SCC
description file (`SCCDESC`{.envar}) if processing area-to-point
sources.

**Smkinven** outputs an annual and average-day inventory emissions file
(`AREA`{.envar}), a file listing the inventory SCCs (`ASCC`{.envar}), a
log file (`LOGFILE`{.envar}), and a report containing various
information about the processed inventory (`REPINVEN`{.envar}).

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_programs_smkinven_mobile}

**Figure 6.15. Smkinven input and output files for mobile sources**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Smkinven input and output files for mobile
sources](images\programs\smkinven_mobile_html.jpg)
:::
:::

[Figure 6.15, "Smkinven input and output files for mobile
sources"](ch06s13s03.html#fig_programs_smkinven_mobile "Figure 6.15. Smkinven input and output files for mobile sources")
shows the input and output files for **Smkinven** for mobile sources.
The input files include the country, state and county codes file
(`COSTCY`{.envar}), the inventory data table (`INVTABLE`{.envar}), the
raw inventory file (`MBINV`{.envar}), and the SCC reference input file
(`SCCXREF`{.envar}) created by
[`Gen_8digit_scc.pl`{.envar}](ch05s02s04.html#sect_moves_gen_sccxref "5.2.4.3. gen_8digit_scc.pl").

**Smkinven** outputs a log file (`LOGFILE`{.envar}), an annual and
average-day inventory emissions file (`MOBL`{.envar}), a file listing
the inventory SCCs (`MSCC`{.envar}), and a report containing various
information about the processed inventory (`REPINVEN`{.envar}).

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_programs_smkinven_point}

**Figure 6.16. Smkinven input and output files for point sources**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Smkinven input and output files for point
sources](images\programs\smkinven_point_html.jpg)
:::
:::

[Figure 6.16, "Smkinven input and output files for point
sources"](ch06s13s03.html#fig_programs_smkinven_point "Figure 6.16. Smkinven input and output files for point sources")
shows the input and output files for **Smkinven** for point sources. The
input files include the optional CEM summary file (`CEMSUM`{.envar})
created by **CEMScan**, the country, state and county codes file
(`COSTCY`{.envar}), the inventory data table (`INVTABLE`{.envar}), and
the optional NONHAP exclusions file (`NHAPEXCLUDE`{.envar}). If
importing hour-specific data, the ORIS facility description file
`ORISDESC`{.envar} is used. The `PSTK`{.envar} file provides replacement
stack parameters. Day-specific data is read from the `PTDAY`{.envar}
file, while hour-specific data comes from the `PTHOUR`{.envar} file; the
`PTINV`{.envar} file provides the raw inventory data. For hour-specific
data, the SCC description file (`SCCDESC`{.envar}) is also needed.

**Smkinven** outputs a log file (`LOGFILE`{.envar}), and optional
day-specific inventory (`PDAY`{.envar}), and an optional hour-spceific
inventory (`PHOUR`{.envar}). The annual and average-day inventory
emissions are stored in the `PNTS`{.envar} file and the `PSCC`{.envar}
file lists the inventory SCCs. Finally, the `REPINVEN`{.envar} report
contains various information about the processed inventory.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e28053}6.13.3.1. Input Files {#input-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.informaltable}
  File Name                                                                                                Format           Source Type   Description
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `AG`{.envar} (optional)                                                                                  I/O API NetCDF   A             Gridded annual or average-day data; this file can be created by **Smkmerge** and must be time-independent
  `[AR|MB|PT]INV`{.envar}                                                                                  ASCII            A, M, P       Annual and average-day emissions and source characteristics raw inventory data
  `ARTOPNT`{.envar} (optional)                                                                             ASCII            A             Area-to-point cross-reference file for assigning X and Y locations to area sources
  `CEMSUM`{.envar} (optional)                                                                              ASCII            P             CEM summary data produced by **CEMScan**
  `COSTCY`{.envar}                                                                                         ASCII            A, M, P       Country, state, and county codes file, with time zones
  [`GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]`{.envar}](ch08s10s03.html "8.10.3. GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]: Geographical Input Files")   ASCII            A, B, M, P    Geographical level codes and descriptions for gridded inventories, only when USE\_EXP\_GEO\_CODES is set to Y, (COSTCY is ignored when [`GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]`{.envar}](ch08s10s03.html "8.10.3. GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]: Geographical Input Files") files are used)
  `GRIDMASK`{.envar}                                                                                       I/O API NetCDF   A, B, M, P    Defines an integer geocode to specify the predominant country and state code covered by each grid cell (`GEOCODE_LEVEL`{.envar}) and an integer `TZONES`{.envar} to specify the predominant Time Zone for each grid cell.
  `INVTABLE`{.envar}                                                                                       ASCII            A, M, P       Inventory data table listing pollutant and activity names
  `NHAPEXCLUDE`{.envar} (optional)                                                                         ASCII            A, M, P       List of counties and SCCs to exclude from toxics integration
  `ORISDESC`{.envar} (optional)                                                                            ASCII            P             ORIS facility descriptions, needed for getting ORIS facility names for reporting purposes when CEM hour-specific data are read
  `PSTK`{.envar}                                                                                           ASCII            P             Replacement stack parameters file
  `PTDAY`{.envar} (optional)                                                                               ASCII            P             Day-specific raw inventory data
  `PTHOUR`{.envar} (optional)                                                                              ASCII            P             Hour-specific raw inventory data
  `SCCDESC`{.envar} (optional)                                                                             ASCII            P             SCC descriptions, needed for reading CEM hour-specific data only, to select electric generator facilities in the inventory
  `SCCXREF`{.envar} (optional)                                                                             ASCII            M             SCC cross reference input file created by [`Gen_8digit_scc.pl`{.envar}](ch05s02s04.html#sect_moves_gen_sccxref "5.2.4.3. gen_8digit_scc.pl"). It maps aggregated mobile activity SCC8 to full SCC10.
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#sect_programs_smkinven_envar}6.13.3.2. Input Environment Variables {#input-environment-variables .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   `USE_EXP_GEO_CODES`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    If set to Y then use GEOCODE\_LEVEL\[1-4\] files instead of the
    COSTCY file to define expanded geographical detail such as
    country-level(GEOCODE\_LEVEL1), country/state-level
    (GEOCODE\_LEVEL2), country/state/county-level (GEOCODE\_LEVEL3) or
    country/state/county/tribal-level (GEOCODE\_LEVEL4).

-   `ALLOW_NEGATIVE`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Indicates if **Smkinven** should permit negative emissions values to
    be input from inventory files and output to `SMOKE`{.envar}
    intermediate files.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Accept negative emissions values and will allow compute
        variables (from the `SMKINVEN_FORMULA`{.envar} variable) to be
        negative. **Smkinven** gives warnings for each negative value in
        the inventory input and each computed value, until triggering
        the `SMK_MAXWARNING`{.envar} setting\'s values.

    -   N: Do not permit negative emissions values. Accept negative
        emissions values in the input inventory files, and will give
        errors for these. **Smkinven** will reset all negative computed
        values (from the `SMKINVEN_FORMULA`{.envar} variable) to zero.
        **Smkinven** gives warnings for each negative computed value and
        indicates that the value was reset to zero.
    :::

-   `CHECK_STACKS_YN`{.envar}: \[default: Y\]

    Indicates if stack parameter values should be checked for missing or
    out-of-range values; only checked if `SMK_SOURCE`{.envar} is set
    to P.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Check input stack parameters for missing or out-of-range
        values

    -   N: Do not check input stack parameter values
    :::

-   `DAY_SPECIFIC_YN`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Defines whether to import day-specific inventory data.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Import day-specific data

    -   N: Do not import day-specific data
    :::

-   `EXCLUDE_REF_SCC_YN`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Defines whether to exclude a list of SCCs that are not listed in
    [Section 8.10.11, "`SCCXREF`{.envar}: Reference SCC input
    file"](ch08s10s11.html "8.10.11. SCCXREF: Reference SCC input file").
    This option is only applicable when `USE_REF_SCC_YN`{.envar} is set
    to Y.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Import day-specific data

    -   N: Do not import day-specific data
    :::

-   `FF10_AVEDAY_ANNINV_YN`{.envar}: \[default N\]

    Uses area daily or hourly FF10-formatted invenotry as annual data.
    This will allow users to process ARDAY or ARHOUR invenotry data
    independently without artifical annual inventory data.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Use daily or hourly FF10-formatted inventory as annual data.

    -   N: Do not use daily or hourly FF10-formatted inventory as annual
        data. Just it as daily or hourly FF10-formatted inventory data.
    :::

-   `FILL_ANNUAL`{.envar}: \[default N\]

    Allows annual data to be filled in with average-day data.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Use "[Y]{.quote}" when annual emission numbers are blank for
        some records of the inventory but not all records. The emissions
        values will be filled in using the average-day emissions field,
        by multiplying the average-day number by the number of days in
        the inventory year (365 or 366). This option is useful when some
        sources have only annual data and some sources have only
        average-day data. Although the annual number will be filled in
        using the average-day one, the average-day emissions will be
        output from SMOKE as a whole.

    -   N: Do not fill in annual data based on average-day emissions
        values.
    :::

-   `FLOW_RATE_FACTOR`{.envar}: \[default: 0.0 ft^3^/MMBTU\]

    Used to calculate hourly flow rates from hourly heat input when
    reading CEM data. If `FLOW_RATE_FACTOR`{.envar} is set to zero or
    unset, then **Smkinven** will not calculate hourly flow rates.
    Detail information is described in [Section 2.9.19, "Processing
    hour-specific CEM
    data"](ch02s09s19.html "2.9.19. Processing hour-specific CEM data")

    hourly flow rate (m^3^/s) = \[`FLOW_RATE_FACTOR`{.envar}
    (ft^3^/MMBTU) \* hourly heat input (MMBTU/hr) \* 0.02831
    m^3^/ft^3^\] / 3600 s/hr

-   `FULLSCC_ONLY`{.envar}: See description in [Section 6.2.3.2, "Input
    Environment
    Variables"](ch06s02s03.html#sect_programs_cntlmat_envar "6.2.3.2. Input Environment Variables").
    In this context, this option affects cross-referencing for the
    `ARTOPNT`{.envar}, and `NHAPEXCLUDE`{.envar} files by preventing
    left-7 SCC assignments. It also prevents left-2 and left-4 SCC
    assignments for NHAPEXCLUDE.

-   `HOUR_SPECIFIC_YN`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Defines whether to import hour-specific inventory data.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Import hour-specific data

    -   N: Do not import hour-specific data
    :::

-   `HOURLY_TO_DAILY`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Defines whether to treat the hour-specific inputs as day-specific
    data.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Use daily-total column only from hour-specific input file,
        and process as day-specific data. [*This setting does not work
        for input of hour-specific data using CEM format.*]{.emphasis}

    -   N: Treat hourly file as hourly data
    :::

-   `HOURLY_TO_PROFILE`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Defines whether to treat the hour-specific inputs as hour-specific
    temporal profiles.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Treat hourly data as temporal profile, and divide each hourly
        value by value in the daily total column of the file. The values
        are not renormalized. The resulting hour-specific output file
        will be recognized by the **Temporal** program as containing
        hourly profiles. [*This setting does not work for input of
        hour-specific data using CEM format.*]{.emphasis}

    -   N: Treat hourly file as hourly data
    :::

-   `IMPORT_AVEINV_YN`{.envar}: \[default: Y\]

    Defines whether to import the annual and average-day inventory data.
    This is set to N to import day-specific or hour-specific data after
    **Smkinven** has previously been run for the annual and average-day
    data.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Import annual and average-day inventory data from
        `PTINV`{.envar} file

    -   N: Use SMOKE inventory files from a previous run of **Smkinven**
        to get the SMOKE source characteristics to match with the
        day-specific and hour-specific sources
    :::

-   `IMPORT_GRDIOAPI_YN`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Defines whether the program will import a gridded I/O API NetCDF
    inventory file. This setting can be used only with area-source
    processing, and it overrides all other program settings for
    importing data (e.g., day- and hour-specific data import will be
    shut off).

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Import gridded I/O API data

    -   N: Do not import gridded I/O API data
    :::

-   `INVNAME1`{.envar}: \[default: none\]

    Sets root for naming output map inventory file

-   `INVNAME2`{.envar}: \[default: none\]

    Sets root for naming output ASCII inventory file

-   `MIN_STK_HEIGHT`{.envar}: \[default: 0.5\]

    Define minimum stack height in unit of meter

-   `MAX_STK_HEIGHT`{.envar}: \[default: 5100.0\]

    Define maximum stack height in unit of meter

-   `MIN_STK_DIAMETER`{.envar}: \[default: 0.01\]

    Define minimum stack diameter in unit of meter

-   `MAX_STK_DIAMETER`{.envar}: \[default: 100.0\]

    Define maximum stack diameter in unit of meter

-   `MIN_STK_TEMPERATURE`{.envar}: \[default: 260.0\]

    Define minimum stack exit temperature in unit of Kelvin

-   `MAX_STK_TEMPERATURE`{.envar}: \[default: 2000.0\]

    Define maximum stack exit temperature in unit of Kelvin

-   `MIN_STK_VELOCITY`{.envar}: \[default: 0.0001\]

    Define minimum stack exit velocity in unit of m/sec

-   `MAX_STK_VELOCITY`{.envar}: \[default: 0.0001\]

    Define maximum stack exit velocity in unit of m/sec

-   `NONHAP_TYPE`{.envar}: \[default: VOC\]

    Define the name of organic compound inventory pollutant VOC or TOG
    for a proper integration between VOC or TOG, and hazardous air
    pollutants (HAPs) to compute NONHAPVOC or NONHAPTOG. See
    [Section 2.9.5, "Combine toxics and criteria
    inventories"](ch02s09s05.html "2.9.5. Combine toxics and criteria inventories")
    for a more detail description of criteria/HAP VOC integration. This
    option will be used only when `SMK_PROCESS_HAPS`{.envar} is set.

-   `NO_STACK_REPLACE_FUGITIVE`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Defines whether the program skips correcting any missing and/or
    out-of-range stack parameters.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Skip correcting any missing and/or out-of-range stack
        parameters

    -   N: Do not skip correcting any missing and/or out-of-range stack
        parameters
    :::

-   `OUTPUT_LOCAL_TIME`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Defines whether the program processes daily/hourly inventories in
    local time or not.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Process daily/hourly inventories in local time. No time zone
        shift.

    -   N: Apply time zone shift.
    :::

-   `RAW_DUP_CHECK`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Defines whether the program checks for duplicate records in the
    input file.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Check for duplicates, and produce a fatal error if found

    -   N: Do not check for duplicates, and add emissions from duplicate
        records
    :::

-   `SMK_ARTOPNT_YN`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Assign X and Y coordinates to specified sources based on the
        `ARTOPNT`{.envar} cross-reference file

    -   N: Do not perform area-to-point processing
    :::

-   `SMK_BASEYR_OVERRIDE`{.envar}: \[default: 0\]

    Used to override the base year determined by the inventory.

-   `SMK_DEFAULT_TZONE`{.envar}: \[default: 5\]

    Defines the default time zone to use for sources that do not match
    entries in the `COSTCY`{.envar} or the `GEOCODE_LEVEL4`{.envar}
    file.

-   `SMK_MAXERROR`{.envar}: \[default: 100\]

    Defines the maximum number of ERROR statements to be displayed by
    SMOKE.

-   `SMK_MAXWARNING`{.envar}: \[default: 100\]

    Defines the maximum number of WARNING statements to be displayed by
    SMOKE.

-   `SMK_PROCESS_HAPS`{.envar}: \[default: blank\]

    Defines how to treat sources for combining criteria VOC and
    hazardous air pollutants (HAP) together. See [Section 2.9.5,
    "Combine toxics and criteria
    inventories"](ch02s09s05.html "2.9.5. Combine toxics and criteria inventories")
    for more detail.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   ALL: Treat all sources as integrated if a toxics inventory has
        been provided. Does not require an `NHAPEXCLUDE`{.envar} file

    -   NONE: Treat all sources as non-integrate if a toxics inventory
        has been provided. Does not require an `NHAPEXCLUDE`{.envar}
        file

    -   PARTIAL: Read the `NHAPEXCLUDE`{.envar} cross-reference file and
        either include or exclude the specified sources from the
        NONHAP\[VOC\|TOG\] calculation depending on the header of the
        `NHAPEXCLUDE`{.envar} file. See [Section 8.10.7,
        "`NHAPEXCLUDE`{.envar}: NonHAP VOC calculation
        inclusions/exclusions
        file"](ch08s10s07.html "8.10.7. NHAPEXCLUDE: NonHAP VOC calculation inclusions/exclusions file").
    :::

-   `SMK_SOURCE`{.envar}: See description in [Section 6.2.3.2, "Input
    Environment
    Variables"](ch06s02s03.html#sect_programs_cntlmat_envar "6.2.3.2. Input Environment Variables")

-   `SMK_TMPDIR`{.envar}: \[default: `.`{.filename}\]

    Sets the path for writing temporary files needed when importing the
    inventory.

-   `SMKINVEN_FORMULA`{.envar}: \[default: blank\]

    Allows the user to specify a formula for computing one or more
    pollutant values from the values of other pollutants. To use, users
    should set the value of `SMKINVEN_FORMULA`{.envar} to a
    double-quote-enclosed string of 512 characters or less, using a
    comma-delimited list of formulas. No spaces are necessary in the
    formula list. Only formulas of a specific structure are accepted.
    Specifically, one of the following:

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   OUTPUT = INPUT1 + INPUT2
    -   OUTPUT = INPUT1 - INPUT2
    :::

    For example, if the formula is set to
    "[PMC=PM10-PM2\_5,EXH\_\_PMC=EXH\_\_PM10-EXH\_\_PM2\_5]{.quote}",
    then **Smkinven** will compute two new variables: (1) PMC, as the
    difference between PM~10~ and PM~2.5~ and (2) EXH\_\_PMC as the
    difference between exhaust PM~10~ and exhaust PM~2.5~. The pollutant
    units are taken from the first variable in each formula. The
    variables used as input in the formula will still be output to the
    SMOKE inventory file. If the formula is not set, no additional
    variables will be written to the SMOKE inventory file. An output
    from one formula may not be used as an input to another formula. In
    the OUTPUT pollutant name is the same as an INPUT pollutant name
    from the inventory file, Smkinven will give an error indicating that
    the second pollutant could not be written (e.g. if computing PMC
    when PMC is already in the raw inventory data). If INPUT2 is
    ommitted, an error will also occur. Formulas using multiplication
    and division are not yet implemented.

-   `SMKINVEN_MONTH`{.envar}: \[default: 0 \]

    Defines the number of month to process. The integer month number
    will allow users to pick monthly total inventory data in area
    FF10-formatted invenotry data listed at [Table 8.15, "FF10 Format
    for
    `ARINV`{.envar}"](ch08s02s04.html#tbl_input_arinv_ff10 "Table 8.15. FF10 Format for ARINV").

-   `USE_REF_SCC_YN`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Defines whether use reference SCC (i.e., SCC8) to full SCC (i.e.,
    SCC10) mapping input file to convert reference SCC-level inventory
    to full SCC inventory. See detail from [Section 8.10.11,
    "`SCCXREF`{.envar}: Reference SCC input
    file"](ch08s10s11.html "8.10.11. SCCXREF: Reference SCC input file")

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Use reference SCC mapping input file to convert reference
        SCCs to full SCCs.

    -   N: Do not use SCCXREF input file.
    :::

-   `VELOC_RECALC`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Defines whether stack velocity is recalculated in order to make the
    velocity consistent with the reported flow and diameter.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Recalculate stack velocity

    -   N: Output the input stack velocity
    :::

-   `WEST_HSPHERE`{.envar}: \[default: Y\]

    Defines how spatial coordinates are interpreted.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Convert longitudinal coordinates for the Western Hemisphere
        (positive values are converted to negative values)

    -   N: Do not convert longitude values (positive values are not
        changed)
    :::

-   `WKDAY_NORMALIZE`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Clarifies the nature of the "[average-day]{.quote}" data read in by
    **Smkinven** and will impact the **Temporal** program processing of
    average-day data for all formats.

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Average-day emissions input to **Smkinven** are based on
        weekday emissions only. In **Temporal**, these emissions will be
        adjusted with weekly profiles normalized with weekdays only
        (Monday through Friday)

    -   N: Average-day emissions input to **Smkinven** are based on
        [*all days of the week*]{.emphasis}. In **Temporal**, these
        emissions will be adjusted with weekly profiles normalized with
        all days of the week.
    :::

-   `WRITE_ANN_ZERO`{.envar}: \[default: N\]

    Indicates if annual emission values equal to zero should be written
    to the intermediate inventory file

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   Y: Write zero emission values; this option makes the
        intermediate inventory file larger but is sometimes necessary
        when only daily or hourly data is provided and the entries in
        the annual inventory are dummy values

    -   N: Do not write zero values
    :::
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e28876}6.13.3.3. Output Files {#output-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.informaltable}
+-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+
| File Name               | Format         | Description             |
+=========================+================+=========================+
| `[A                     | SMOKE map      | Annual and average-day  |
| REA|MOBL|PNTS]`{.envar} |                | inventory emissions and |
|                         |                | source characteristics  |
+-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+
| `[A                     | ASCII          | List of SCCs appearing  |
| SCC|MSCC|PSCC]`{.envar} |                | in the raw inventory    |
|                         |                | file                    |
+-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+
| `LOGFILE`{.envar}       | ASCII          | Log generated from      |
|                         |                | executing **Smkinven**  |
+-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+
| `ADAY | PDAY`{.envar}   | I/O API NetCDF | Day-specific inventory  |
|                         |                | emissions assigned to   |
|                         |                | sources in              |
|                         |                | annual/average-day      |
|                         |                | files (optional)        |
+-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+
| `AHOUR | PHOUR`{.envar} | I/O API NetCDF | Hour-specific inventory |
|                         |                | emissions assigned to   |
|                         |                | sources in              |
|                         |                | annual/average day      |
|                         |                | files (optional)        |
+-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+
| `REPINVEN`{.envar}      | ASCII          | Inventory report file;  |
| (optional)              |                | contents depend on the  |
|                         |                | inventory being         |
|                         |                | processed, but can      |
|                         |                | include:                |
|                         |                |                         |
|                         |                | CEM section:            |
|                         |                |                         |
|                         |                | ::: {.itemizedlist}     |
|                         |                | -   ORIS IDs from the   |
|                         |                |     CEM matched to the  |
|                         |                |     inventory           |
|                         |                | -   ORIS IDs from the   |
|                         |                |     CEM not matched to  |
|                         |                |     the inventory       |
|                         |                | -   Power-generating    |
|                         |                |     inventory sources   |
|                         |                |     not matched to the  |
|                         |                |     CEM                 |
|                         |                | :::                     |
|                         |                |                         |
|                         |                | Toxics section:         |
|                         |                |                         |
|                         |                | ::: {.itemizedlist}     |
|                         |                | -   Total emissions and |
|                         |                |     number of inventory |
|                         |                |     records by CAS      |
|                         |                |     number              |
|                         |                | -   Total emissions     |
|                         |                |     before and after    |
|                         |                |     aggregation by CAS  |
|                         |                |     number              |
|                         |                | :::                     |
|                         |                |                         |
|                         |                | Area-to-point section:  |
|                         |                |                         |
|                         |                | ::: {.itemizedlist}     |
|                         |                | -   SCCs in the         |
|                         |                |     `ARTOPNT`{.envar}   |
|                         |                |     file but not in the |
|                         |                |     inventory           |
|                         |                | -   Total emissions     |
|                         |                |     before and after    |
|                         |                |     area-to-point       |
|                         |                |     processing by       |
|                         |                |     pollutant, state,   |
|                         |                |     and SCC             |
|                         |                | :::                     |
+-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+
:::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------
  [Prev](ch06s13s02.html)      [Up](ch06s13.html)     [Next](ch06s14.html)
  6.13.2. Processing Order     [Home](index.html)       6.14. **Smkmerge**
  --------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------
:::
