::: {.navheader}
6.7. **Met4moves**
:::

[Prev](ch06s06s03.html) 

Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs

 [Next](ch06s07s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_programs_met4moves}6.7. **Met4moves** {#met4moves .title style="clear: both"}
----------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.7.1. Description](ch06s07.html#d0e25157)]{.section}

[[6.7.2. Processing Order](ch06s07s02.html)]{.section}

[[6.7.3. Files, Environment Variables and Run
Syntax](ch06s07s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e25157}6.7.1. Description {#description .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.7.1.1. Definition of a
"[day]{.quote}"](ch06s07.html#d0e25172)]{.section}
:::

[*Processing categories:*]{.emphasis} mobile

The **Met4moves** is a meteorological processor that prepares
temperature and relative humidity (RH) data for use by both MOVES and
SMOKE. **Met4moves** produces specific meteorological metrices for the
representative county(s) for MOVES and additional meteorological metrics
for all inventory counties in the county group for SMOKE

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e25172}6.7.1.1. Definition of a "[day]{.quote}" {#definition-of-a-day .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

**Met4moves** seeks to obtain 24 hours' worth of meteorology data for a
source for each day, which is necessary for generating emission factors.
However, the definition of a "[day]{.quote}" differs for sources in
different time zones. By default, **Met4moves** uses each source's time
zone to determine a day for that time zone. To instead use the same
day-start-time for all sources, the `UNIFORM_STIME`{.envar} environment
variable can be used.

If the inventory covers multiple time zones, all sources will not have
the same coverage of days. **Met4moves** will use meteorology data from
previous or subsequent days to fill in missing data. If appropriate data
are not available, the program will quit with an error and you must
provide additional meteorology data to cover the time period of
interest. Currently, **Met4moves** does not considers Daylight Saving
time in its determination of "[day]{.quote}".
:::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [Prev](ch06s06s03.html)                     [Up](ch06.html)       [Next](ch06s07s02.html)
  6.6.3. Files and Environment Variables     [Home](index.html)     6.7.2. Processing Order
  ----------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
:::
