::: {.navheader}
6.4. **Grdmat**
:::

[Prev](ch06s03s03.html) 

Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs

 [Next](ch06s04s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_programs_grdmat}6.4. **Grdmat** {#grdmat .title style="clear: both"}
----------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.4.1. Description](ch06s04.html#d0e23845)]{.section}

[[6.4.2. Processing Order](ch06s04s02.html)]{.section}

[[6.4.3. Files and Environment Variables](ch06s04s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e23845}6.4.1. Description {#description .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

[*Processing categories:*]{.emphasis} area, mobile, point

The **Grdmat** program produces the matrix that contains the factors for
spatially allocating the emission sources to the modeling domain.

For pre-gridded inventory data, grdmat is used to convert the data from
the input data grid (e.g. lat-lon for EDGAR/RCP/HTAP) to the output
modeling grid when the user sets IMPORT\_GRDNETCDF\_YN to Y. Spatial
surrogates (AGPRO or MGPRO) are not needed for processing gridded
inventory data with SMOKE. The input modeling domain information is
obtained from the GRIDMASK input file and the output grid is defined by
the IOAPI\_GRIDNAME\_1 environment variable in the GRID\_CRO\_2D file.

For inventory data that is not already pre-gridded, point sources are
assigned to grid cells using the geographic coordinates that are stored
in each point-source record. For area and mobile sources, a
cross-reference file matches the gridding surrogates to the source-level
emissions. When the gridding cross-reference files are applied, the
most-specific matches always override the less-specific ones.

For the current version of SMOKE, a gridding surrogates file must be
created for the specific grid of interest. This can be accomplished in a
variety of ways:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   ArcInfo (or other GIS) processing by an expert in creating gridding
    surrogates.

-   Using the MIMS Spatial Allocation Tool.

-   Extracting surrogate data from a larger gridding surrogates file.
    National 4-km surrogates are available from the EPA at
    <http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/emch/spatial/newsurrogate.html>. To
    use these data for your modeling, you must use the same grid
    projection as was used to create the gridding surrogates.
:::

For area sources, the gridding cross-reference file provides the
following possible combinations, ordered from most specific to least
specific:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Country/state/county code and 10-digit SCC

2.  Country/state/county code and 7-digit SCC

3.  Country/state code and 10-digit SCC

4.  Country/state code and 7-digit SCC

5.  10-digit SCC

6.  7-digit SCC

7.  Country/state/county code

8.  Country/state code

9.  Ultimate default (country/state/county code = 0, SCC = 0)
:::

For mobile sources, the available combinations and their order are:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Country/state/county code, and 10-digit SCC

2.  Country/state code and 10-digit SCC

3.  Country/state/county code

4.  Country/state code

5.  10-digit SCC

6.  Ultimate default (country/state/county code = 0, SCC = 0)
:::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [Prev](ch06s03s03.html)                     [Up](ch06.html)       [Next](ch06s04s02.html)
  6.3.3. Files and Environment Variables     [Home](index.html)     6.4.2. Processing Order
  ----------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
:::
