::: {.navheader}
6.6. **Laypoint**
:::

[Prev](ch06s05s03.html) 

Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs

 [Next](ch06s06s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_programs_laypoint}6.6. **Laypoint** {#laypoint .title style="clear: both"}
--------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.6.1. Description](ch06s06.html#d0e24584)]{.section}

[[6.6.2. Processing Order](ch06s06s02.html)]{.section}

[[6.6.3. Files and Environment Variables](ch06s06s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e24584}6.6.1. Description {#description .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.6.1.1. Plume rise calculation for
fires](ch06s06.html#sect_programs_laypoint_plume_rise_fires)]{.section}
:::

[*Processing categories:*]{.emphasis} point

The **Laypoint** program uses the SMOKE point-source inventory file with
gridded and hourly meteorology data to compute hourly plume rise for all
point sources. The plume rise is expressed in terms of layer fractions
for each source.

**Laypoint** is run only for the CMAQ styles of processing, in which all
of the plume rise calculations are done prior to input to the AQM. In
**Laypoint**, meteorological data are used to calculate the plume rise
for all point sources. Then, the plume is distributed into the vertical
layers that the plume intersects based on the pressure in each layer.
Only these fractions are stored (not the emissions in each layer), until
the SMOKE merge step (**Smkmerge**). Therefore, the plume rise
calculations do not need to be repeated for each control strategy or
grid. The **Laypoint** program calculates the plume rise for all days of
each meteorological scenario.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#sect_programs_laypoint_plume_rise_fires}6.6.1.1. Plume rise calculation for fires {#plume-rise-calculation-for-fires .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Regardless whether the heat flux for wildfires is precomputed or
internally computed, the Pouliot-Godowitch plume rise algorithm (
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/conference/ei14/session12/pouliot.pdf )
converts the heat flux (Q) to a bouyancy flux (F) for use in the plume
rise calculation (Equation 1). Hourly heat flux (Q) can be estimated
based upon daily area burned, fuel loading, material burned and a
constant default heat content (8000 BTU/lb). See more detail information
in [Section 4.4.17, "Plume Rise Calculation for
Fires"](ch04s04s17.html "4.4.17. Plume Rise Calculation for Fires").

To account for a smoldering fraction of the fire emissions, fire plumes
are distributed into both the model layers below the plume bottom and
into the model layers between the plume top and bottom. The smoldering
fraction of the total fire emissions is distributed into the model layer
below the plume bottom. The remaining part of emissions are distributed
into the model layers between the plume bottom and top.

Equation 2 estimates the plume bouyant efficiency (BE) which is the
portion of heat release from a fire that produces bouyancy, using the
fire size in acres. The smoldering fraction (S~fraction~) of the fire
plume is calculated from the BE (Equation 3). All the fire emissions are
allocated to the model layers using a weighting based on the hourly
sigma-pressure vertical coordinate. These equations are is used in
**Laypoint** when the variable `FIRE_PLUME_YN`{.envar} is set to Y. More
information about processing fire emissions is in [Section 4.4.17,
"Plume Rise Calculation for
Fires"](ch04s04s17.html "4.4.17. Plume Rise Calculation for Fires").

Fire-specific plume rise equations are following:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  F = 0.00000258 x Q

2.  BE~size~ = 0.0703 x ln( [*acres*]{.emphasis} ) + 0.3

3.  S~fraction~ = 1 - BE~size~
:::

where

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   F = Bouyancy flux (m^4^/s^3^)
-   Q = Heat flux for fires (BTU/hr)
-   BE~size~ = bouyanct efficiency
-   acres = fire size in acres
-   S~fraction~ = smoldering fration
:::
:::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [Prev](ch06s05s03.html)                     [Up](ch06.html)       [Next](ch06s06s02.html)
  6.5.3. Files and Environment Variables     [Home](index.html)     6.6.2. Processing Order
  ----------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
:::
