::: {.navheader}
6.13. **Smkinven**
:::

[Prev](ch06s12s03.html) 

Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs

 [Next](ch06s13s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_programs_smkinven}6.13. **Smkinven** {#smkinven .title style="clear: both"}
---------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.13.1. Description](ch06s13.html#d0e27742)]{.section}

[[6.13.2. Processing Order](ch06s13s02.html)]{.section}

[[6.13.3. Files and Environment Variables](ch06s13s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e27742}6.13.1. Description {#description .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

[*Processing categories:*]{.emphasis} area, mobile, point

**Smkinven** reads in the raw input data, sorts the records, and creates
the SMOKE inventory files that are required by most of the SMOKE
programs. The program is run separately for area-, mobile-, and
point-source processing. **Smkinven** reads annual, average-day,
day-specific, and hour-specific inventory files. The annual and
average-day inventory data are combined into a single inventory. The
output also indicates whether the data started out as annual or
average-day data; such "[temporal origin]{.quote}" information is needed
by the **Temporal** program to determine whether to apply monthly
adjustments. **Smkinven** can also import gridded one-layer annual or
average-day emissions in I/O API NetCDF or CF-compliant NetCDF format as
an area sourc.

**Smkinven** writes several SMOKE inventory files for each source
category: an ASCII file containing all character-string fields from the
inventory, individual I/O API NetCDF files containing emissions data for
each output pollutant, and an ASCII map file listing the names and
locations of each file. The character string fields cannot be stored in
the I/O API NetCDF file because of limitations of the I/O API library.
When day-specific and hour-specific data are available (this applies
only for point sources), **Smkinven** can also read these data, and
produce separate I/O API NetCDF files for each data type (day-specific
or hour-specific).

**Smkinven** supports the following input file formats and source
categories:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   SMOKE one-record-per-line (ORL) format for nonpoint, nonroad mobile,
    on-road mobile, and point sources

-   SMOKE one-record-per-line (ORL) format for fire point sources
    (modified to support wildfires and prescribed fires characteristics
    and pollutants)

-   Special mobile link format

-   FF10 (Flat File 10) format for many different source categories
    including day-specific, hour-specific, monthly and annual for
    nonpoint, nonroad mobile, on-road mobile, and point sources (comma
    or semicolon delimited)

-   ASCII Continuous Emissions Monitoring (CEM) format (hour-specific
    point-source emissions)

-   List format (for combining multiple files of the same or compatible
    formats) for area, mobile, and point

-   LIST GRID format (for reading multiple gridded one-layer annual
    CF-compliant NetCDF inventory data) as area sources

-   Gridded one-layer annual or average-day NetCDF I/O API or
    CF-compliant NetCDF emissions data (must be treated as an area
    source)
:::

It is not possible to import only day- or hour-specific data from FF10
input files. If only such data are to be used, mock annual files must be
created; see [Section 8.2.6, "`PTDAY`{.envar}: Point source day-specific
emissions"](ch08s02s06.html "8.2.6. PTDAY: Point source day-specific emissions")
and [Section 8.2.7, "`PTHOUR`{.envar}: Point source hour-specific
emissions"](ch08s02s07.html "8.2.7. PTHOUR: Point source hour-specific emissions")
for more information on the required formats.

The list format is simply a list of file names with paths with a special
format identifier that allows all files in the list to be processed
together. To use a list format, all input files must have the same or
compatible formats.

The list grid format is simply a list of CF-compliant NetCDF file names
with paths with a special format identifier that allows all files in the
list to be processed together. To use a list grid format, all input
files must have the same or compatible formats with inventory data from
the same year.

When using CEM data, you are encouraged to preprocess your data to
prepare them down to the dates and/or sources in the domain. The sources
in the grid will be selected based on matching to the inventory (if the
inventory is for only states within the modeling grid) and/or by the
**Grdmat** program, which will remove sources outside the grid from the
model-ready results.

**Smkinven** also can process the hourly CEM data in a more
sophisticated way. Hourly heat input from the CEM data are used to
allocate annual emissons to hourly emission data. More information are
available at ([Section 5.3.4,
"**CEMScan**"](ch05s03s04.html "5.3.4. CEMScan")) and ([Section 2.9,
"Inventory import"](ch02s09.html "2.9. Inventory import"))

If new sources are added to the input files or sources are removed,
**Smkinven** must be rerun for that type of source. However,
**Smkinven** does not need to be rerun when processing additional
control scenarios, growth projections, speciation profiles, or modeling
grids.

By default, **Smkinven** will fill in missing average-day data with
annual data when possible. To fill in missing annual data with
average-day data, use the `FILL_ANNUAL`{.envar} setting.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------
  [Prev](ch06s12s03.html)                      [Up](ch06.html)        [Next](ch06s13s02.html)
  6.12.3. Files and Environment Variables     [Home](index.html)     6.13.2. Processing Order
  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------
:::
