::: {.navheader}
6.12.3. Files and Environment Variables
:::

[Prev](ch06s12s02.html) 

6.12. **Normbeis3**

 [Next](ch06s13.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e27555}6.12.3. Files and Environment Variables {#files-and-environment-variables .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.12.3.1. Input Files](ch06s12s03.html#d0e27618)]{.section}

[[6.12.3.2. Input Environment
Variables](ch06s12s03.html#d0e27697)]{.section}

[[6.12.3.3. Output Files](ch06s12s03.html#d0e27702)]{.section}
:::

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_programs_normbeis3}

**Figure 6.12. Normbeis3 input and output files for BEIS v3.14**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Normbeis3 input and output files for BEIS
v3.14](images\programs\normbeis3_html.jpg)
:::
:::

[Figure 6.13, "Normbeis3 input and output files for BEIS
v3.60"](ch06s12s03.html#fig_programs_normbeis360 "Figure 6.13. Normbeis3 input and output files for BEIS v3.60")
shows the input and output files for the **Normbeis3** program for BEIS
v3.14. The input files are the emission factors file (`B3FAC`{.envar}),
the gridded land use file for the first 120 land use types
(`BELD3_A`{.envar}), the gridded land use types for the next 110 types
(`BELD3_B`{.envar}), and the land use totals data file
(`BELD3_TOT`{.envar}).

::: {.figure}
[]{#fig_programs_normbeis360}

**Figure 6.13. Normbeis3 input and output files for BEIS v3.60**

::: {.mediaobject}
![Normbeis3 input and output files for BEIS
v3.60](images\programs\normbeis360_html.jpg)
:::
:::

[Figure 6.12, "Normbeis3 input and output files for BEIS
v3.14"](ch06s12s03.html#fig_programs_normbeis3 "Figure 6.12. Normbeis3 input and output files for BEIS v3.14")
shows the input and output files for the **Normbeis3** program for BEIS
v3.60. The input files are the emission factors file
(`B360FAC`{.envar}), the gridded land use file for the first 286 land
use types (`BELD4`{.envar}).

**Normbeis3** outputs a gridded, normalized biogenic emissions file
(`B3GRD`{.envar}) and a log file (`LOGFILE`{.envar}).

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e27618}6.12.3.1. Input Files {#input-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Gridded land use data can be created using GIS software, such as
ArcInfo. Another tool that can be used to generate gridded land use data
is the SMOKE Tool in Models-3 (see Models-3 documentation). The typical
database used to generate the `BELD3_A`{.envar}, `BELD3_B`{.envar}, and
`BELD3_TOT`{.envar} files is the BELD3. Future versions of SMOKE may
include a method for creating land use files for use with **Normbeis3**.

::: {.informaltable}
  File Name             Format           Description
  --------------------- ---------------- ------------------------------------------------------------
  `B3FAC`{.envar}       ASCII            Emission factors file for BEIS v3.14
  `BELD3_A`{.envar}     I/O API NetCDF   Gridded land use (first 120 land use types) for BEIS v3.14
  `BELD3_B`{.envar}     I/O API NetCDF   Gridded land use (last 110 land use types) for BEIS v3.14
  `BELD3_TOT`{.envar}   I/O API NetCDF   Land use totals data for BEIS v3.14
  `B360FAC`{.envar}     ASCII            Emission factors file for BEIS v3.60
  `BELD4`{.envar}       ASCII            Gridded 286 land use for BEIS v3.60
:::
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e27697}6.12.3.2. Input Environment Variables {#input-environment-variables .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

None
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

#### []{#d0e27702}6.12.3.3. Output Files {#output-files .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.informaltable}
  File Name           Format           Description
  ------------------- ---------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `B3GRD`{.envar}     I/O API NetCDF   Gridded, normalized biogenic emissions (in grams of carbon or nitrogen per hour, depending on the species) and LAI: contains both summer and winter normalized emissions
  `LOGFILE`{.envar}   ASCII            Log generated from executing **Normbeis3**
:::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------
  [Prev](ch06s12s02.html)      [Up](ch06s12.html)     [Next](ch06s13.html)
  6.12.2. Processing Order     [Home](index.html)       6.13. **Smkinven**
  --------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------
:::
