::: {.navheader}
6.15. **Spcmat**
:::

[Prev](ch06s14s03.html) 

Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs

 [Next](ch06s15s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_programs_spcmat}6.15. **Spcmat** {#spcmat .title style="clear: both"}
-----------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.15.1. Description](ch06s15.html#d0e30657)]{.section}

[[6.15.2. Processing Order](ch06s15s02.html)]{.section}

[[6.15.3. Files and Environment Variables](ch06s15s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e30657}6.15.1. Description {#description .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

[*Processing categories:*]{.emphasis} area, mobile, point

An emission inventory is built and reported for a variety of compounds
or chemical classes such as CO, NO~x~, VOC, PM~10~, and SO~2~. However,
AQM photochemical mechanisms (e.g., CB6, SAPRC) contain a simplified set
of equations that use representative "[model species]{.quote}" to
represent atmospheric chemistry. Therefore, factors are needed to
convert the emissions from the chemical classes in the emission
inventory to the species in the intended photochemical mechanism. The
**Spcmat** program produces matrices that contain the factors for
performing this conversion.

The speciation factors are provided to **Spcmat** using \"speciation
profiles\", which are applied to the inventory\'s sources using a
\"speciation cross-reference\". For inventories that contain VOC mass,
an additional factor is needed that converts the VOC mass to Total
Organic Gases (TOG) mass, since the profiles used for VOC are actually
computed based on TOG. The TOG profiles are used (instead of VOC
profiles) since some of the TOG mass gets assigned to model species.
Using VOC-only profiles would underestimate the volatile mass being
emitted. Historically in SMOKE, the VOC-to-TOG conversion factors have
been assigned by SCC or FIPS and SCC. Starting with SMOKE version 2.3,
however, these factors can optionally be assigned by speciation profile
ID codes. In fact, since the VOC-to-TOG factors come directly from the
raw data used to create speciation profiles factors (such as the
SPECIATE4.0 database), the most consistent way to assign these factors
is actually by speciation profile ID. SMOKE version 2.3 is backward
compatible with existing GSCNV file formats.

**Spcmat** outputs both mass-based and mole-based speciation factors for
all sources. Previous systems have assumed that the average molecular
weight of the model species was sufficient to represent the molecular
weight of a species emitted by a specific source. In fact, the actual
molecular weight of a model species is different for different types of
emission processes. To represent the mass values more accurately, the
mass and mole factors are input, applied, and output separately by
Spcmat.

The speciation cross-reference file input to **Spcmat** specifies the
speciation profile to be used for transforming the inventory pollutants
to the model species for each source or type of source. **Spcmat**
permits profiles to be assigned based on the country, state, and county
code, the SCC, and other source characteristics. In the hierarchical
system used to apply the profiles, the most specific assignments are
applied first, followed by the next most specific, and so on. This
system ensures that the most-specific matches override the less-specific
ones.

For stationary area/nonpoint sources, the available combinations and
their order are the following, starting with the most specific. "[Left
[*x*]{.emphasis} of SCC]{.quote}" refers to an 8- or 10-digit SCC with
all digits except the first [*x*]{.emphasis} set to 0. "[Left 2 of SIC
code]{.quote}" refers to a 4-digit SIC code with the third and fourth
digits set to 0.The maximum field width in SMOKE and its input files for
SCC is 20 characters as of SMOKE v4.0. The 8 or 10 digit SCC are still
supported, but if the SCC is greater than 10 digits the SCC hierarchial
approach will not be supported. The SIC may also be up to 20 characters
in length, but if the SIC is larger than 4 characters then the
hierarchial approach will not be used. (NOTE: only for SCC less than or
equal to 10 characters and SIC less than or equal to 4 characters)

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Country/state/county code, MACT code, and 8- or 10-digit SCC

2.  Country/state/county code and MACT code

3.  Country/state code, MACT code, and 8- or 10-digit SCC

4.  Country/state code and MACT code

5.  MACT code and 8- or 10-digit SCC

6.  MACT code

7.  Country/state/county code and 4-digit SIC code

8.  Country/state/county code and left 2 of SIC code

9.  Country/state code and 4-digit SIC code

10. Country/state code and left 2 of SIC code

11. 4-digit SIC code

12. Left 2 of SIC code

13. Country/state/county code and 8- or 10-digit SCC

14. Country/state/county code and left 6 or left 7 of SCC

15. Country/state code and 8- or 10-digit SCC

16. Country/state code and left 6 or left 7 of SCC

17. 8- or 10-digit SCC

18. Left 6 or left 7 of SCC

19. Country/state/county code

20. Country/state code

21. Ultimate default (country/state/county code = 0, SCC = 0)
:::

For nonroad sources, the available combinations and their order are:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Country/state/county code and 10-digit SCC

2.  Country/state/county code and left 7 of SCC

3.  Country/state code and 10-digit SCC

4.  Country/state code and left 7 of SCC

5.  10-digit SCC

6.  Left 7 of SCC

7.  Country/state/county code

8.  Country/state code

9.  Ultimate default (country/state/county code = 0, SCC = 0)
:::

For point sources, the available combinations depend on the source
definition. A header in the speciation cross-reference file format
allows you to indicate the source definition. For inventories, a source
is defined as the unique combination of country/state/county code, plant
ID, point ID, stack ID, segment, and SCC. For point sources, the
available combinations and their order are:

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Country/state/county code, plant ID, point ID, stack ID, segment ID,
    SCC, and pollutant

2.  Country/state/county code, plant ID, point ID, stack ID, segment ID,
    and pollutant

3.  Country/state/county code, plant ID, point ID, stack ID, and
    pollutant

4.  Country/state/county code, plant ID, point ID, and pollutant

5.  Country/state/county code, plant ID, SCC, and pollutant

6.  Country/state/county code and plant ID

7.  Country/state/county code, MACT code, and SCC

8.  Country/state/county code and MACT code

9.  Country/state code, MACT code, and SCC

10. Country/state code and MACT code

11. MACT code and SCC

12. MACT code

13. Country/state/county code and 4-digit SIC code

14. Country/state/county code and left 2 of SIC code

15. Country/state code and 4-digit SIC code

16. Country/state code and left 2 of SIC code

17. 4-digit SIC code

18. Left 2 of SIC code

19. Country/state/county code and SCC

20. Country/state/county code and left 6 of SCC

21. Country/state/county code and left 3 of SCC

22. Country/state/county code and left 1 of SCC

23. Country/state code and SCC

24. Country/state code and left 6 of SCC

25. Country/state code and left 3 of SCC

26. Country/state code and left 1 of SCC

27. SCC

28. Left 6 of SCC

29. Left 3 of SCC

30. Left 1 of SCC

31. Country/state/county code

32. Country/state code

33. Ultimate default (country/state/county code = 0, SCC = 0)
:::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------
  [Prev](ch06s14s03.html)                      [Up](ch06.html)        [Next](ch06s15s02.html)
  6.14.3. Files and Environment Variables     [Home](index.html)     6.15.2. Processing Order
  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------
:::
