::: {.navheader}
6.11. **Mrgpt**
:::

[Prev](ch06s10s03.html) 

Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs

 [Next](ch06s11s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_programs_mrgpt}6.11. **Mrgpt** {#mrgpt .title style="clear: both"}
---------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.11.1. Description](ch06s11.html#d0e27030)]{.section}

[[6.11.2. Processing Order](ch06s11s02.html)]{.section}

[[6.11.3. Files and Environment Variables](ch06s11s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e27030}6.11.1. Description {#description .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

[*Processing categories:*]{.emphasis} Point

The purpose of the **Mrgpt** program is to combine inline-mode
model-ready multiple point speciated hourly emission data files (not
gridded) created by **Smkmerge** and ASCII elevated files created by
**Elevpoint**. The program merges whatever data variables are in the
input files. These files can each have different sets of data variables;
**Mrgpt** will sum values only for each variable that is common to two
or more files.

**Mrgpt** checks several features of the input files to ensure that the
data in these files are appropriate to be merged together. All input
files must have use the same time step. **Mrgpt** compares the units of
the variables with the same name and it creates an error message when
the units are not identical. It is not sufficient to have units that are
the same in meaning but different in syntax. For example, although
tons/hour and tons/hr represent the same units, **Mrggrid** will not
recognize this because of the different syntax. The user must resolve
unit discrepancies before running the program.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------
  [Prev](ch06s10s03.html)                      [Up](ch06.html)        [Next](ch06s11s02.html)
  6.10.3. Files and Environment Variables     [Home](index.html)     6.11.2. Processing Order
  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------
:::
