::: {.navheader}
6.16. **Temporal**
:::

[Prev](ch06s15s03.html) 

Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs

 [Next](ch06s16s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_programs_temporal}6.16. **Temporal** {#temporal .title style="clear: both"}
---------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[6.16.1. Description](ch06s16.html#d0e31325)]{.section}

[[6.16.2. Processing Order](ch06s16s02.html)]{.section}

[[6.16.3. Files and Environment Variables](ch06s16s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e31325}6.16.1. Description {#description .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

[*Processing categories:*]{.emphasis} area, mobile, point

The **Temporal** program produces a file with hourly inventory pollutant
emissions. Unlike the SMOKE matrices produced by **Cntlmat**,
**Grdmat**, and **Spcmat**, the output file from **Temporal** contains
the actual emissions data. For all source categories, it uses temporal
profiles, temporal cross-references, and the time zone of each source to
create the hourly emissions output file. It can also read in
day-specific and hour-specific inventory data in SMOKE format, and it
uses the most detailed data it can when multiple types of data are
available for the same source. For example, if a source had annual,
day-specific, and hour-specific data, **Temporal** would use the
hour-specific emissions. The program can also apply source-specific
hourly profiles from the hour-specific data file, and it can override
all temporal profiles and use temporally uniform profiles for all
sources.

**Temporal** treats the temporal profiles as [*local*]{.emphasis}
profiles. In other words, the profile applied to the source is adjusted
based on the difference between the time zone of the source (determined
by the `COSTCY`{.envar} file) and the output time zone (determined by
the `OUTZONE`{.envar} environment variable). SMOKE automatically
considers Daylight Saving time when converting from a region's standard
time zone to the output time zone, and SMOKE can exclude regions that
never use Daylight Saving time based on the `COSTCY`{.envar} file. Note
that **Temporal** has been tested for time zones in the Western
Hemisphere, but we have not tested it for time zones in the Eastern
Hemisphere.

Within the **Temporal** program, the processing occurs as follows:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Temporal profiles are assigned for all sources.

-   Monthly (year-to-month) temporal profiles can be applied.

-   Daily (month-to-day) temporal profiles can be applied.

-   Weekly (month-to-weekly) temporal profiles can be applied.

-   Day-of-week specific hourly diurnal temporal profiles
    (Monday,,,Sunday, Weekday, Weekend, or All days) are applied.

-   Date-specific hourly diurnal temporal profiles (year-to-hour,
    month-to-hour or day-to-hour) can be applied.

-   Day-specific emissions or activities are read in and used to
    overwrite daily emissions for the appropriate sources

-   Hour-specific emissions or activities are read in and used to
    overwrite hourly emissions for the appropriate sources.
:::

Hourly temporal profiles can be applied for weekdays and weekend days by
default in the system. By breaking up the processing into different
periods, you can apply different temporal profiles for different days of
the week. A future version of SMOKE will permit different hourly
profiles for every day of the week in a single run of the **Temporal**
program.

A special holidays file should be provided so that holidays can receive
special treatment. This file specifies which daily profiles should be
applied to holidays.

A many-step hierarchy is used in applying the temporal
cross-referencing. SMOKE preferentially matches each source to the most
specific line in the cross-reference file. When there are missing
entries in the cross-reference file, **Temporal** first looks for
cross-reference entries for other species at the same level in the
search hierarchy before descending to the next level in the hierarchy.
For example, if a source has a temporal cross-reference entry for CO but
not for NO~x~, **Temporal** uses the source-specific CO temporal cross
reference entry for allocating NO~x~ from that source in preference to
using a default NO~x~ temporal profile.

For area sources, the available combinations are the following, starting
with the most specific. "[7-digit SCC]{.quote}" means a 10-digit SCC
with the last three digits set to zero. The maximum field width in SMOKE
and its input files for SCC is 20 characters as of SMOKE v4.0. The 8 or
10 digit SCC are still supported, but if the SCC is greater than 10
digits the SCC hierarchial approach will not be supported. The SIC may
also be up to 20 characters in length, but if the SIC is larger than 4
characters then the hierarchial approach will not be used. (NOTE: only
for SCC less than or equal to 10 characters and SIC less than or equal
to 4 characters)

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Country/state/county code, 10-digit SCC, and pollutant

2.  Country/state/county code, 7-digit SCC, and pollutant

3.  Country/state code, 10-digit SCC, and pollutant

4.  Country/state code, 7-digit SCC, and pollutant

5.  10-digit SCC and pollutant

6.  7-digit SCC and pollutant

7.  Country/state/county code and 10-digit SCC

8.  Country/state/county code and 7-digit SCC

9.  Country/state code and 10-digit SCC

10. Country/state code and 7-digit SCC

11. 10-digit SCC

12. 7-digit SCC

13. Country/state/county code

14. Country/state code

15. Ultimate default (no pollutant, country/state/county code = 0, SCC
    = 0)
:::

For point sources, the available combinations depend on the source
definition. A header is used in the file to indicate the source
definition. For inventories, a source is defined as the unique
combination of country/state/county code, plant ID, point ID, stack ID,
segment, and SCC. "[5-digit SCC]{.quote}" means a 10-digit SCC with the
last 5 digits set to zero. If only 8-digit SCCs are available, these can
be used and SMOKE will assume leading zeros. In this case, the "[5-digit
SCC]{.quote}" becomes a "[3-digit SCC]{.quote}". The maximum field width
in SMOKE and its input files for SCC is 20 characters as of SMOKE v4.0.
The 8 or 10 digit SCC are still supported, but if the SCC is greater
than 10 digits the SCC hierarchial approach will not be supported. The
SIC may also be up to 20 characters in length, but if the SIC is larger
than 4 characters then the hierarchial approach will not be used.

The hierarchy of cross-referencing is the following. (NOTE: only for SCC
less than or equal to 10 characters, SIC less than or equal to 4
characters)

::: {.orderedlist}
1.  Country/state/county code, 10-digit SCC, plant ID, point ID, stack
    ID, segment, and pollutant

2.  Country/state/county code, 10-digit SCC, plant ID, point ID, stack
    ID, and pollutant

3.  Country/state/county code, 10-digit SCC, plant ID, point ID, and
    pollutant

4.  Country/state/county code, 10-digit SCC, plant ID, and pollutant

5.  Country/state/county code, 10-digit SCC, plant ID, point ID, stack
    ID, and segment

6.  Country/state/county code, 10-digit SCC, plant ID, point ID, and
    stack ID

7.  Country/state/county code, 10-digit SCC, plant ID, and point ID

8.  Country/state/county code, 10-digit SCC, and plant ID

9.  Country/state/county code, and plant ID

10. Country/state/county code, 10-digit SCC, and pollutant

11. Country/state/county code, 5-digit SCC, and pollutant

12. Country/state code, 10-digit SCC, and pollutant

13. Country/state code, 5-digit SCC, and pollutant

14. 10-digit SCC and pollutant

15. 5-digit SCC and pollutant

16. Country/state/county code and 10-digit SCC

17. Country/state/county code and 5-digit SCC

18. Country/state code and 10-digit SCC

19. Country/state code and 5-digit SCC

20. 10-digit SCC

21. 5-digit SCC

22. Country/state/county code

23. Country/state code

24. Ultimate default (all values = 0)
:::
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------
  [Prev](ch06s15s03.html)                      [Up](ch06.html)        [Next](ch06s16s02.html)
  6.15.3. Files and Environment Variables     [Home](index.html)     6.16.2. Processing Order
  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------
:::
