::: {.navheader}
7.2. **Smkreport** Program
:::

[Prev](ch07.html) 

Chapter 7. SMOKE Quality Assurance

 [Next](ch07s02s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_qa_smkreport}7.2. **Smkreport** Program {#smkreport-program .title style="clear: both"}
------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[7.2.1. Description](ch07s02.html#d0e32926)]{.section}

[[7.2.2. Processing Order](ch07s02s02.html)]{.section}

[[7.2.3. Files and Environment Variables](ch07s02s03.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#d0e32926}7.2.1. Description {#description .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

**Smkreport** uses the SMOKE intermediate files generated by other SMOKE
programs to create a large variety of emissions and activity data totals
to be used for QA of the emissions data. This QA is in addition to the
QA performed by other SMOKE programs for checking file formats and input
quality, and it focuses on analysis of the emissions values processed
and output by SMOKE. **Smkreport** operates on one source category
(area, mobile, or point) in a given run, though it does not operate on
biogenic emissions because biogenic does not have the same structure of
intermediate files that **Smkreport** uses for inputs. Each run of
**Smkreport** is also limited to one speciation scenario, one grid
projection and resolution, and one hourly emissions file. **Smkreport**
can also read in growth or multiplicative control matrices, but not
reactivity control matrices. All of these component datasets are
optional, however, and their use is controlled by the settings in the
Report Configuration File (`REPCONFIG`{.envar}), described in
[Section 7.3, "`REPCONFIG`{.envar} Input
File"](ch07s03.html "7.3. REPCONFIG Input File"). Analysis of multiple
source categories (area/mobile/point) in the same report is a
postprocessing step in which the user can import multiple reports from
different source categories and analyze across multiple source
categories.

The most important input file to **Smkreport** is the
`REPCONFIG`{.envar} file. Through this file, you have a tremendous
amount of flexibility in generating different types of reports. Options
are invoked by using reporting "[instructions]{.quote}", which you
prepares before using **Smkreport**. See the `REPCONFIG`{.envar}
documentation in [Section 7.3, "`REPCONFIG`{.envar} Input
File"](ch07s03.html "7.3. REPCONFIG Input File") for more information on
the reporting options. Additionally, in [Section 7.5, "Quality Assurance
Methods"](ch07s05.html "7.5. Quality Assurance Methods") we provide some
guidance on the types of analyses you can perform using reports created
by **Smkreport**, and reasons why you might want to use those analyses.

**Smkreport** can generate multiple reports with a single run of the
program. Multiple report writing is helpful, because a large part of the
time that the program takes to run is reading in the SMOKE intermediate
files. Note that the multiple reports are all for a single source
category for one run of **Smkreport**. As described in the [Section 7.4,
"Reports Created by
**Smkreport**"](ch07s04.html "7.4. Reports Created by Smkreport"), the
report output names are configured by the `REPCONFIG`{.envar} file. You
may specify either physical file names (including the path) in
`REPCONFIG`{.envar}, or you may specify logical file names and then make
sure your script sets the logical file names to physical file names.
[Chapter 4, *How to Use SMOKE*](ch04.html "Chapter 4. How to Use SMOKE")
describes the default configuration of reports in the example SMOKE
scripts. At the end of [Chapter 4, *How to Use
SMOKE*](ch04.html "Chapter 4. How to Use SMOKE"), we also provide
information about how to configure the scripts to change the output
reports that SMOKE will create.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [Prev](ch07.html)                       [Up](ch07.html)       [Next](ch07s02s02.html)
  Chapter 7. SMOKE Quality Assurance     [Home](index.html)     7.2.2. Processing Order
  ------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
:::
