::: {.navheader}
Chapter 7. SMOKE Quality Assurance
:::

[Prev](ch06s17s03.html) 

 

 [Next](ch07s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.chapter lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#ch_quality_assurance}Chapter 7. SMOKE Quality Assurance {#chapter-7.-smoke-quality-assurance .title}
-----------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[7.1. Introduction](ch07.html#d0e32876)]{.section}

[[7.2. **Smkreport** Program](ch07s02.html)]{.section}

[[7.3. `REPCONFIG`{.envar} Input File](ch07s03.html)]{.section}

[[7.4. Reports Created by **Smkreport**](ch07s04.html)]{.section}

[[7.5. Quality Assurance Methods](ch07s05.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#d0e32876}7.1. Introduction {#introduction .title style="clear: both"}
------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

This chapter provides documentation on SMOKE's quality assurance (QA)
capabilities. Quality assurance of emissions modeling results is a very
important component of using SMOKE. Because emission modeling is a
complex procedure that includes many disparate data sets and many
processing steps, it is critical that quality assurance be performed on
the emissions modeling results prior to using the model-ready emissions
in air quality modeling. Failure to quality assure the results will
almost surely result in undesirable errors in SMOKE's output caused by
factors such as user inexperience, file formatting errors,
misunderstanding of software capabilities, and software bugs. It is far
preferable to catch emissions modeling problems during emissions
modeling rather than after the emissions results have already been used
and policy decisions made based on them.

SMOKE quality assurance consists of at least the following components:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Setting up SMOKE using available documentation (this manual) on file
    formats and script setup.

-   Reviewing log files for errors and warnings, then resolving any
    problems.

-   Reviewing reports generated by SMOKE core programs (e.g., reports
    from the **Cntlmat** program indicating which controls were applied
    and the changes made to the inventory emissions).

-   Reviewing and customizing reports generated by the **Smkreport**
    program, and comparing these to one another and to totals from the
    emission inventory.
:::

In this chapter, we provide documentation on the **Smkreport** program
([Section 7.2, "**Smkreport**
Program"](ch07s02.html "7.2. Smkreport Program")), on its main input
file `REPCONFIG`{.envar} ([Section 7.3, "`REPCONFIG`{.envar} Input
File"](ch07s03.html "7.3. REPCONFIG Input File")), and on the
**Smkreport** output reports ([Section 7.4, "Reports Created by
**Smkreport**"](ch07s04.html "7.4. Reports Created by Smkreport")). In
the final section of this chapter ([Section 7.5, "Quality Assurance
Methods"](ch07s05.html "7.5. Quality Assurance Methods")), we outline QA
methods that SMOKE users can apply to ensure that their inventory and
emissions modeling efforts are as correct as possible.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- -----------------------------
  [Prev](ch06s17s03.html)                                                  [Next](ch07s02.html)
  6.17.3. Files and Environment Variables     [Home](index.html)     7.2. **Smkreport** Program
  ------------------------------------------ -------------------- -----------------------------
:::
