::: {.navheader}
7.3. `REPCONFIG`{.envar} Input File
:::

[Prev](ch07s02s03.html) 

Chapter 7. SMOKE Quality Assurance

 [Next](ch07s03s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_qa_repconfig}7.3. `REPCONFIG`{.envar} Input File {#repconfig-input-file .title style="clear: both"}
---------------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[7.3.1. One-time
section](ch07s03.html#sect_qa_repconfig_one_time)]{.section}

[[7.3.2. Define-group section](ch07s03s02.html)]{.section}

[[7.3.3. Create-report Section](ch07s03s03.html)]{.section}

[[7.3.4. The /DELIMITER/ packet](ch07s03s04.html)]{.section}

[[7.3.5. The /SET LABEL/ packet](ch07s03s05.html)]{.section}

[[7.3.6. The /REPORT TIME/ packet](ch07s03s06.html)]{.section}

[[7.3.7. The /AVEDAY/ packet](ch07s03s07.html)]{.section}

[[7.3.8. The /NEWFILE/ packet](ch07s03s08.html)]{.section}
:::

The `REPCONFIG`{.envar} file is used to control the **Smkreport**
program. As noted earlier, each run of **Smkreport** is constrained to a
single source category (area, mobile, or point), at most one speciation
scenario, at most one grid, and at most one hourly emissions file. All
of these component datasets are optional, however, and their use is
controlled by the settings in `REPCONFIG`{.envar}. This file also
controls the number and types of reports created by **Smkreport**, which
can create an unlimited number of reports in each program run.

The file works on the principles of "[packets]{.quote}" and
"[instructions]{.quote}". Packets are groups of instructions or a single
action that have been predefined by the `REPCONFIG`{.envar} file format
to control the **Smkreport** outputs; instructions are settings that
tell **Smkreport** what to do. Some types of packets must appear in one
of three sections, while other packets can appear anywhere in the
`REPCONFIG`{.envar} file. The three sections are: "[One-time]{.quote}"
(see [Section 7.3.1, "One-time
section"](ch07s03.html#sect_qa_repconfig_one_time "7.3.1. One-time section")),
"[Define-group]{.quote}" (see [Section 7.3.2, "Define-group
section"](ch07s03s02.html "7.3.2. Define-group section")), and
"[Create-report]{.quote}" (see [Section 7.3.3, "Create-report
Section"](ch07s03s03.html "7.3.3. Create-report Section")); each file
section has a large number of options. In this section of the chapter,
we first provide details on these three file sections and their packets,
and then we describe four additional packets that can appear between
other packets at any point in the `REPCONFIG`{.envar} file.

The full list of packets that one can use in the `REPCONFIG`{.envar}
input file are as follows:

One-time section ([Section 7.3.1, "One-time
section"](ch07s03.html#sect_qa_repconfig_one_time "7.3.1. One-time section"))

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   SMK\_SOURCE
:::

Define-group section ([Section 7.3.2, "Define-group
section"](ch07s03s02.html "7.3.2. Define-group section"))

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   /DEFINE GROUP REGION/

-   /DEFINE SUBGRID/
:::

Create-report section ([Section 7.3.3, "Create-report
Section"](ch07s03s03.html "7.3.3. Create-report Section"))

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   /CREATE REPORT/
:::

Packets that can appear anywhere in the file

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   /DELIMITER/ ([Section 7.3.4, "The /DELIMITER/
    packet"](ch07s03s04.html "7.3.4. The /DELIMITER/ packet"))

-   /AVEDAY/ ([Section 7.3.7, "The /AVEDAY/
    packet"](ch07s03s07.html "7.3.7. The /AVEDAY/ packet"))

-   /REPORT TIME/ ([Section 7.3.6, "The /REPORT TIME/
    packet"](ch07s03s06.html "7.3.6. The /REPORT TIME/ packet"))

-   /NEWFILE/ ([Section 7.3.8, "The /NEWFILE/
    packet"](ch07s03s08.html "7.3.8. The /NEWFILE/ packet"))

-   /SET LABEL/ ([Section 7.3.5, "The /SET LABEL/
    packet"](ch07s03s05.html "7.3.5. The /SET LABEL/ packet"))
:::

Comments can be put in the file using a pound sign (\#) at the first
column of a line, or a double pound sign (\#\#) anywhere else on a line.
The double pound can appear after packet labels or instructions in the
file.

Finally, note that the maximum number of characters that can be read on
any line in this file is 300. This can be important in particular for
the SELECT DATA instruction.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_qa_repconfig_one_time}7.3.1. One-time section {#one-time-section .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The first section of the file is the One-time section, and it is a
required section. This section is used for setting the environment
variables that control **Smkreport** for all reports in a given run. The
variables are set by listing the environment variable as an instruction,
followed by its value. No **setenv** command (used in the C shell) is
needed, because SMOKE is interpreting these values directly. At this
time, the one instruction available in the One-time section is the
SMK\_SOURCE variable:

`SMK_SOURCE`{.envar}: Set as "[A]{.quote}", "[M]{.quote}", or
"[P]{.quote}", for area-source reporting, mobile-source reporting, and
point-source reporting, respectively.

An example of the way this setting would appear in the
`REPCONFIG`{.envar} file is the following:

``` {.programlisting}
SMK_SOURCE   A
```
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------
  [Prev](ch07s02s03.html)                     [Up](ch07.html)           [Next](ch07s03s02.html)
  7.2.3. Files and Environment Variables     [Home](index.html)     7.3.2. Define-group section
  ----------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------
:::
