::: {.navheader}
7.3.5. The /SET LABEL/ packet
:::

[Prev](ch07s03s04.html) 

7.3. `REPCONFIG`{.envar} Input File

 [Next](ch07s03s06.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_qa_repconfig_set_label}7.3.5. The /SET LABEL/ packet {#the-set-label-packet .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The /SET LABEL/ packet can be used to set a label to include on every
row of every subsequent report defined in the `REPCONFIG`{.envar} file.
The label text can be either the text that appears in the packet, or the
label can be defined by an environment variable. This feature
facilitates combining multiple reports from separate SMOKE runs into a
single report more easily. For example, if the packet is used to create
state reports for all sectors run through SMOKE, then those state
reports could be concatenated, the file headers removed (except for the
first header), and the individual sectors would be idenfified by the
labels on the rows.

The syntax for the packet is as follows:

/SET LABEL/ \<label\>

where \<label\> is limited to 200 characters and is one of the
following:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   a string of text that will appear near the beginning of every data
    line of the report. The only invalid string is the word \"OFF\" in
    capital letters.

    Example: /SET LABEL/ NonEGU Point

    In this example, all subsequent reports will contain a new column
    called \"Label\" and every value in the entire report will be
    \"NonEGU Point\".

-   an environment variable designated by \<label\> starting with a
    dollar sign.

    Example: /SET LABEL/ \$RUN\_ID

    In this example, **Smkreport** will attempt to evaluate the
    environment variable `RUN_ID`{.envar} from the shell running
    **Smkreport**. If `RUN_ID`{.envar} is a defined environment variable
    (e.g., the shell had set `RUN_ID`{.envar} to \"oarea\"), then all
    subsequent reports will contain a new column called \"Label\" and
    every value in the entire report will be \"oarea\".

    If the environment variable is not defined, set to blank, or
    otherwise invalid, the instruction will behave like the /SET LABEL/
    OFF case below.

-   the word \"OFF\".

    Example: /SET LABEL/ OFF

    This syntax turns off use of the label in all subsequent reports
    until a new valid /SET LABEL/ packet is found.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------
  [Prev](ch07s03s04.html)           [Up](ch07s03.html)             [Next](ch07s03s06.html)
  7.3.4. The /DELIMITER/ packet     [Home](index.html)     7.3.6. The /REPORT TIME/ packet
  -------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------
:::
