::: {.navheader}
7.5.3. Reviewing reports created by SMOKE core programs
:::

[Prev](ch07s05s02.html) 

7.5. Quality Assurance Methods

 [Next](ch07s05s04.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_qa_methods_core_reports}7.5.3. Reviewing reports created by SMOKE core programs {#reviewing-reports-created-by-smoke-core-programs .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

In addition to log files, some SMOKE programs also create reports. These
reports can help provide quality assurance concerning the steps taken by
the program. The programs and their associated reports and uses are as
follows:

**Smkinven**: Creates the `REPINVEN`{.envar} file, which documents the
inventory data read, which data where kept, and the inventory totals for
each data value. It also includes the area-to-point conversion
information.

**Laypoint**: Creates the `REPRTLAY`{.envar} file, which documents any
point sources for which the **Laypoint** program computed a plume rise
into a layer greater than the layer number set by the
`REP_LAYER_MAX`{.envar} setting.

**Spcmat**: Creates the `ASSUP`{.envar}, `MSSUP`{.envar}, and
`PSSUP`{.envar} files, which include the speciation profile codes
assigned to each source by pollutant. These files can be used with the
ASCII component of the SMOKE intermediate inventory file
(`AREA`{.envar}, `MOBL`{.envar}, and `PNTS`{.envar}) to quickly
determine the speciation profile assigned to a specific source. These
files are also input files to the **Smkreport** program, for creating
more involved summaries of emissions and/or sources including the
speciation profiles.

**Grdmat**: Creates the `AGSUP`{.envar} and `MGSUP`{.envar} files, which
include the spatial surrogate codes assigned to each source. They also
indicate whether that assignment was a fallback or original assignment.
This file can be used with the ASCII component of the SMOKE intermediate
inventory file (`AREA`{.envar} and `MOBL`{.envar}) to quickly determine
the spatial surrogate assigned to a specific source. These files can
also be used by the **Smkreport** program, for creating more involved
summaries of emissions and/or sources including the spatial surrogate
codes.

**Temporal**: Creates the `ATSUP`{.envar}, `MTSUP`{.envar}, and
`PTSUP`{.envar} files, which include the monthly, weekly, and diurnal
profile codes assigned to each source for each pollutant. These files
can be used with the ASCII component of the SMOKE intermediate inventory
file (`AREA`{.envar}, `MOBL`{.envar}, and `PNTS`{.envar}) to quickly
determine the temporal profiles assigned to a specific source. When no
pollutant-specific temporal profile assignments have been made, these
files can also be used by the **Smkreport** program, for creating more
involved summaries of emissions and/or sources including the temporal
profile codes.

**Cntlmat**: Writes several report files (documented with the
**Cntlmat** program in [Chapter 6, *SMOKE Core
Programs*](ch06.html "Chapter 6. SMOKE Core Programs")) that summarize
the growth and control factors. Separate reports are written for each
type of projection (growth, multiplicative control, reactivity control)
with emissions before and after each control. Another report is written
that summarizes all projections made to each source.

**Smkmerge**: Writes a report of state and/or county totals that are
created at the same time as the model-ready files. These totals are
guaranteed to match the actual state/county totals in the model-ready
gridded, hourly outputs (unless there is a problem introduced into
**Smkmerge**). These reports are useful even though they duplicate the
**Smkreport** reports in some ways, because they allow you to ensure
that the **Smkmerge** totals and **Smkreport** totals are the same -
indicating that **Smkreport** was run with the correct files. Because
**Smkreport** is run separately from **Smkmerge**, this is not
necessarily the case, so you should confirm it with the **Smkmerge**
report.
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch07s05s02.html)        [Up](ch07s05.html)                                               [Next](ch07s05s04.html)
  7.5.2. Reviewing log files     [Home](index.html)     7.5.4. Reviewing and customizing reports created by **Smkreport**
  ----------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------
:::
