::: {.navheader}
8.5. Chemical speciation
:::

[Prev](ch08s04s06.html) 

Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files

 [Next](ch08s05s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_input_chemical}8.5. Chemical speciation {#chemical-speciation .title style="clear: both"}
------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[8.5.1. `GSCNV`{.envar}: Pollutant-to-pollutant conversion
file](ch08s05.html#sect_input_gscnv)]{.section}

[[8.5.2. `GSPRO`{.envar}: Speciation profile
file](ch08s05s02.html)]{.section}

[[8.5.3. `GSPRO_COMBO`{.envar}: Combination speciation profiles
file](ch08s05s03.html) ]{.section}

[[8.5.4. `GSREF`{.envar}: Speciation cross-reference
file](ch08s05s04.html)]{.section}

[[8.5.5. `GSTAG`{.envar}: Speciation tagging cross-reference
file](ch08s05s05.html) ]{.section}
:::

The directories where the chemical speciation files should be stored are
listed in [Table 8.4, "Chemical Speciation Input File
Locations"](ch08.html#tbl_input_chemical_files "Table 8.4. Chemical Speciation Input File Locations").
The table also lists the programs that use each input file.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_input_gscnv}8.5.1. `GSCNV`{.envar}: Pollutant-to-pollutant conversion file {#gscnv-pollutant-to-pollutant-conversion-file .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The pollutant-to-pollutant conversion factors file is required when
there is a mismatch between the pollutant in the inventory and the
pollutant for which the speciation profiles have been developed. The
typical example is when the inventory has VOC (or ROG), but the
speciation profiles are developed for TOG. SMOKE permits such a factor
to be applied to any pollutant. The same format is used by all source
categories.

These factors can be applied to the inventory using one of two
assignment approaches: either by FIPS/SCC or by Speciation Profile ID.
The same approach must be used for all sources in a single run of
Spcmat. Historically in SMOKE, the FIPS/SCC approach has been used;
however, starting with SMOKE version 2.3, users may instead apply these
factors by Speciation Profile ID. For assignment of factors using the
state/county FIPS and SCC codes, the available combinations and
hierarchies for applying the factors are the same as for the speciation
cross-reference (see [Section 6.15,
"**Spcmat**"](ch06s15.html "6.15. Spcmat")), with the exception of the
plant ID and other more specific source characteristics for point
sources. For assignment of the factors using Speciation Profile ID,
there is no assignment hierarchy - whatever profile was assigned to a
source by the GSREF file will be used to choose the factor to apply from
the GSCNV file, for the appropriate pollutants. To assign these factors
by Speciation Profile ID, a special header line is needed, as described
below. SMOKE version 2.3 is backward compatible with previous GSCNV
files used with earlier versions.

The `GSCNV`{.envar} file is not needed if there is no mismatch between
the inventory and the pollutants in the speciation profiles file. The
**Spcmat** program will input and use this file only when the
`POLLUTANT_CONVERSION`{.envar} environment variable is set to Y.

If emissions types (emission process/pollutant combinations) are being
used, as with mobile source processing using the **Movesmrg** program
(see [Section 2.8.4.9, " MOVES Emission Processes by Emission Rate
Tables"](ch02s08s04.html#sect_concepts_moves_emission_processes "2.8.4.9.  MOVES Emission Processes by Emission Rate Tables")),
the emission type must be listed instead of the pollutant. For example,
if exhaust running VOC emissions were being converted to exhaust TOG,
then EXR\_\_VOC and EXR\_\_TOG would need to appear in their respective
columns on the header line (line 1 in the \"old\" format below or in the
first and second columns in the \"new\" format). It would not be correct
to put only VOC and TOG. All emission types must be listed, or the
conversion factor that will be applied is 1. This approach permits
conversion factors that are specific to each emission process (e.g.,
different conversions for EXR and EXS).

The format of the `GSCNV`{.envar} file for Speciation Profile ID
assignments is shown in [Table 8.40, "Format for `GSCNV`{.envar} (using
Speciation Profile ID
assignments)"](ch08s05.html#tbl_input_gscnv_new "Table 8.40. Format for GSCNV (using Speciation Profile ID assignments)").
The format is consistent with the format created by the Emission
Modeling Framework Speciation Tool.

::: {.table}
[]{#tbl_input_gscnv_new}

**Table 8.40. Format for `GSCNV`{.envar} (using Speciation Profile ID
assignments)**

This format can support comment lines before the first required header
line shown as \"line 1\" in the table below, or anywhere in the files.
The file is list-formatted and therefore needs space, comma, or
semi-colon delimeters between the fields.

Line
:::
:::
:::

Position

Description

1

1-11

\#BY PROFILE (required)

2

A

Name of pollutant or emission type converting from (16-character)
(required)

 

B

Name of pollutant or emission type converting to (16-character)
(required)

 

C

Speciation profile code (5-character) (required)

 

D

Volatile conversion factor (Real) (required)

Repeat line 2 as needed for multiple pollutants and/or emission types

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch08s04s06.html)                                          [Up](ch08.html)                               [Next](ch08s05s02.html)
  8.4.6. `GRIDDESC`{.envar}: Grids and projection information     [Home](index.html)     8.5.2. `GSPRO`{.envar}: Speciation profile file
  -------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------
:::
