::: {.navheader}
8.10.4. `INVTABLE`{.envar}: Inventory table
:::

[Prev](ch08s10s03.html) 

8.10. Other Support Files

 [Next](ch08s10s05.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_input_invtable}8.10.4. `INVTABLE`{.envar}: Inventory table {#invtable-inventory-table .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The `INVTABLE`{.envar} file replaces the `SIPOLS`{.envar} and
`ACTVNAMS`{.envar} files previously used by SMOKE. **Smkinven** uses the
inventory table to select the inventory pollutants that will be output
by **Smkinven**. The valid pollutants are again checked at the end of
SMOKE processing by **Smkmerge**, to ensure that the program knows about
all of the pollutants and also to set the order of the output variables
(output species are sorted by the order of the pollutants in the
inventory table and for multiple species per pollutant, by alphabetical
order). You can use the `INVTABLE`{.envar} to drop inventory pollutants
in **Smkinven** without having to modify the inventory files, simply by
modifying `INVTABLE`{.envar}. The units used in the SMOKE intermediate
files are listed in this file. The SMOKE programs **Spcmat**, and
**Movesmrg** use this file to determine which pollutants should be
included in the NONHAPVOC or NONHAPTOG calculation.

The inventory table also provides a way to assign the SPECIATE4 species
ID to any pollutant that is a Hazardous Air Pollutant (HAP) VOC. This
assignment is not used directly by SMOKE, but rather is used by the
Speciation Tool when creating VOC speciation profiles. This is used only
when creating speciation profiles to support SMOKE runs that will
combine criteria VOC and HAP VOC emissions, using the
`NHAPEXCLUDE`{.envar} file in the **Smkinven** program. More
specifically, this can be done for the purpose of using VOC HAP
emissions to augment VOC speciation profiles. Since the Inventory Table
provides information to the Speciation Tool, this field is not used by
SMOKE, but is included for continued integration of SMOKE inputs with
the Speciation Tool.

As described in the **Smkinven** documentation in Chapter 6,
**Smkinven** in some cases will create \"no-integrate\" (NOI) HAP
pollutant emissions from the inventory data by renaming the pollutant
with a \"\_NOI\" suffix applied to the end of the Inventory Data Name
from the Inventory Table for such pollutants. Similarly, **Smkinven**
will automatically add all possibly needed \"\_NOI\" pollutant names to
the internal master list of valid pollutant names. This list would
otherwise be limited to the contents of the `INVTABLE`{.envar} file
entries where the Keep column contains an \"Y\". **Smkinven** inserts
these names in the master list such that the \"\_NOI\" version of the
pollutant name appears in the list just after the polutant on which the
name is based. The inserted entries that include \"\_NOI\" are made when
the following values are included for the pollutant in the
`INVTABLE`{.envar} file.

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   A \"Y\" appears in the \"Keep\" field

-   A \"V\" or \"T\" appears in the \"VOC or TOG component\" field

-   A \"Y\" appears in the \"Model species\" field

-   Something other than \"Y\" appears in the \"Explicit in mechanism\"
    field (e.g., \"N\" or blank)
:::

It is possible for a user to choose two pollutants that result in double
counting the emissions from the inventory. For example, you may want to
model both benzo(a)pyrene and 7-PAH which, would result in the emissions
associated with CAS number 205992 (for benzo(a)pyrene) to be duplicated.
The user is responsible for the choices made and the resulting changes
in inventory mass.

The format of the `INVTABLE`{.envar} is shown in [Table 8.89, "Format
for
`INVTABLE`{.envar}"](ch08s10s04.html#tbl_input_invtable "Table 8.89. Format for INVTABLE").

::: {.table}
[]{#tbl_input_invtable}

**Table 8.89. Format for `INVTABLE`{.envar}**

  Position   Description                                                                                         Type
  ---------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------
  1-11       Inventory data name                                                                                 11-character string
  13-15      Mode (optional) e.g., EXR, EXS, EXH, EVP, BIO                                                       3-character string
  17-32      Inventory Pollutant Code                                                                            16-character string
  34-38      SPECIATE4 ID(optional)                                                                              Integer
  40         Reactivity group (not used by SMOKE)                                                                Integer
  42         Keep (Y or N)                                                                                       1-character string
  44-49      Factor                                                                                              Float
  50         VOC or TOG component (V/T/N)                                                                        1-character string
  52         Model species (Y/N)                                                                                 1-character string
  54         Explicit in mechanism (Y/N)                                                                         1-character string
  56         Activity                                                                                            1-character string
  58-60      NTI                                                                                                 Integer
  62-77      Units to be used in SMOKE intermediate files ([*changing not recommended*]{.emphasis})              16-character string
  79-118     Inventory data description - a description of the name provided in columns 1-11.                    40-character string
  119-158    CAS pollutant description - a description of the CAS or pollutant code contained in the inventory   40-character string
:::

The columns in the `INVTABLE`{.envar} are used as follows:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Inventory data name: Unique name for pollutant or activity that will
    be stored and processed by SMOKE. Because of I/O API restrictions,
    these names can only include alphanumeric characters and
    underscores, and the first character must be a letter. In addition,
    because SMOKE uses double-underscore as a separator when appending
    to variable names, no double-underscores are permitted in these
    names.

-   Mode: This three-letter code represents the emissions mode that
    SMOKE uses to augment the pollutant names. Emissions mode usually
    refers to the on-road or nonroad mobile exhaust or evaporative
    emissions. If present in a record of the Inventory Table, SMOKE will
    combine the Mode field with the Inventory Data Name field using a
    double underscore. So, if the Inventory Data Name is \"VOC\" and the
    Mode is \"EXH\", then the pollutant name in SMOKE intermediate files
    will be stored as \"EXH\_\_VOC\".

-   Inventory Pollutant Code: This code represents the pollutant that is
    provided in the inventory file input into SMOKE, and is sometimes
    the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) number when the inventory uses
    CAS numbers to identify pollutants. **Smkinven** matches this code
    to a ORL-formatted inventory file to assign the combination of Mode
    and Inventory Data Name (columns 2 and 1 as described in the
    previous bullet), which is used in all subsequent SMOKE intermediate
    files and reports. This code is not used by SMOKE in any other way.

-   SPECIATE4 ID: The SPECIATE4 ID is the unique species identifier in
    SPECIATE4 (the \"ID\" field in the SPECIES\_PROPERTIES table). This
    code is not used by SMOKE, but rather is used during import of the
    Inventory Table to the Speciation Tool.

-   Reactivity group: The reactivity group for the ASPEN model. It is
    not used in SMOKE.

-   Keep: Indicates whether SMOKE should keep the CAS number associated
    with this inventory data name. SMOKE will keep any inventory data
    with at least one CAS number with a Y.

-   Factor: The adjustment factor to use in splitting the emissions
    associated with a CAS number into different inventory data names, or
    reducing the mass of a metal compound associated with a CAS number
    to account for the metal mass only.

-   VOC or TOG component: A "[V]{.quote}" should be entered if the CAS
    number is part of VOC emissions or TOG emissions. A "[T]{.quote}"
    should be entered if the CAS number is part of TOG emissions only.
    An "[N]{.quote}" should be entered if the CAS number is part of
    neither VOC or TOG. Any other value other than "[V]{.quote}" or
    "[T]{.quote}" will be treated as an "[N]{.quote}".

-   Model species: A "[Y]{.quote}" should be entered if the pollutant is
    also a VOC model species for the AQM being targeted for the run. Any
    other values will be treated as an "[N]{.quote}".

-   Explicit in mechanism: A "[Y]{.quote}" should be entered if (1) the
    pollutant is a VOC species (the model-species column must be
    "[Y]{.quote}" as well), and (2) that model-species is explicitly
    treated in the AQM's chemical mechanism. The pollutant can be an
    explicit species in the chemical mechanism only when the
    `GSPRO`{.envar} file definitions of the lumped VOC species have been
    adjusted to account for the pollutants/species that are explicit in
    the mechanism. The current explicit-in-mechanism species being used
    in the toxics CB6 mechanism for CMAQ are formaldehyde, acetaldheyde,
    acrolein and 1,3 butadiene.

-   Activity: A "[Y]{.quote}" should be entered if the inventory data
    name is a type of activity instead of emissions. Any other values
    will be treated as an "[N]{.quote}".

-   NTI: Code identifying a HAP on the Clean Air Act HAP list (list of
    188 HAPs). Not currently used by SMOKE; will be used in the future
    for growing HAP emissions to future years.

-   Units: The units to store the data in the SMOKE intermediate files.
    This should be "[short tons/year]{.quote}" for emissions values,
    "[miles/year]{.quote}" for VMT, and "[miles/hr]{.quote}" for speed.
    Although this is provided as an input field to allow possible future
    changes, these values should [*not*]{.emphasis} be changed by the
    user and are unrelated to the units of the emissions in the input
    files.

-   Inventory data descriptions: This is the description of the
    inventory data name listed in columns 1-11.

-   CAS pollutant description: Describes the pollutant that is coming
    from the inventory that is being input into SMOKE.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch08s10s03.html)                                            [Up](ch08s10.html)                                [Next](ch08s10s05.html)
  8.10.3. `GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]: Geographical Input Files`{.envar}     [Home](index.html)     8.10.5. `MACTDESC`{.envar}: MACT code descriptions
  ----------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------
:::
