::: {.navheader}
8.5.2. `GSPRO`{.envar}: Speciation profile file
:::

[Prev](ch08s05.html) 

8.5. Chemical speciation

 [Next](ch08s05s03.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_input_gspro}8.5.2. `GSPRO`{.envar}: Speciation profile file {#gspro-speciation-profile-file .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The speciation profile file, `GSPRO`{.envar}, contains the factors that
are used to separate aggregated inventory pollutant emissions totals
into emissions of model species required by the AQM. In traditional
ozone air quality modeling, this file contained split factors only for
VOC. In SMOKE, all inventory pollutants need to be represented in this
file, even if it is only to indicate that a pollutant is not split into
any model species (e.g., CO emissions would have a "[split
factor]{.quote}" of 1.0). The format of the `GSPRO`{.envar} file is
shown in [Table 8.41, "Format for
`GSPRO`{.envar}"](ch08s05s02.html#tbl_input_gspro "Table 8.41. Format for GSPRO").

For support of combining criteria and toxic VOC using the NONHAPVOC
calculation feature of SMOKE, the GSPRO file (starting in version 2.3 of
SMOKE) includes a special header that defines the meaning of NONHAPVOC.
This is the new \#NHAP header, described below. This header keyword will
be treated as a comment line by previous versions of SMOKE. The header
lines define NONHAPVOC (and/or NONHAPTOG) by listing all of the VOC
compounds that were assumed to be removed from VOC (or TOG) when the
speciation profile factors for NONHAPVOC (or NONHAPTOG) were calculated.
When using this file, Spcmat compares this list with the list from the
Inventory Table (\"VOC or TOG Component\" field = V or T and \"Explicit
in Mechanism = \"N\"). This new header is included in this file so that
the file is self-describing with respect to the definition of NONHAPVOC
and NONHAPTOG.

The format supports header lines (using a \# symbol in position 1 of any
line) in any part of the file.

::: {.table}
[]{#tbl_input_gspro}

**Table 8.41. Format for `GSPRO`{.envar}**

  Line   Position   Description (all fields are required)
  ------ ---------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1+     A          \#NHAP (optional header lines to be included only for NONHAPVOC processing approach in SMOKE. Skip to Line 2 for all other cases)
         B          Pollutant name (either NONHAPVOC or NONHAPTOG)
         C          Toxics name of compound(s) subtracted from VOC or TOG to calculate NONHAPVOC or NONHAPTOG (must match \"Inventory Data Name\" column from Inventory Table (`INVTABLE`{.envar})
  2+     A          Speciation profile number (Character)
         B          Pollutant ID (name) (Character)
         C          Species ID (name) (Character)
         D          Split factor (Real)
         E          Divisor (Real)
         F          Mass Fraction (Real)
:::

The columns are used by SMOKE as follows:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   The speciation profile number is matched with the number in the
    `GSREF`{.envar} file. This "[number]{.quote}" is treated as a
    character string, so leading zeros must be the same in both the
    `GSPRO`{.envar} and `GSREF`{.envar} files.

-   The pollutant ID must match the pollutant names in the SMOKE
    inventory file (`AREA`{.envar}, `MOBL`{.envar}, or `PNTS`{.envar}).
    These names are set by the \#POLID or \#DATA headers in the
    **Smkinven** input files.

-   The species IDs are the names of the model species needed by the AQM
    for which SMOKE is being used. These depend on the requirements of
    that model. The example SMOKE inputs will not be correct for all
    AQMs.

-   The split factor is the numerator in the factor computed for the
    mole-based speciation matrix.

-   The divisor is the denominator in the factor computed for the
    mole-based speciation matrix.

-   The mass fraction is the value put in the mass-based speciation
    matrix. The ratio of the mass fraction and the split factor is the
    average molecular weight for the species and profile, if the divisor
    is 1.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch08s05.html)         [Up](ch08s05.html)                                                [Next](ch08s05s03.html)
  8.5. Chemical speciation     [Home](index.html)     8.5.3. `GSPRO_COMBO`{.envar}: Combination speciation profiles file
  --------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
:::
