::: {.navheader}
8.5.3. `GSPRO_COMBO`{.envar}: Combination speciation profiles file
:::

[Prev](ch08s05s02.html) 

8.5. Chemical speciation

 [Next](ch08s05s04.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_input_gspro_combo}8.5.3. `GSPRO_COMBO`{.envar}: Combination speciation profiles file {#gspro_combo-combination-speciation-profiles-file .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

When the special keyword "[`COMBO`{.envar}]{.quote}" is used as a
speciation profile code in the [Section 8.5.4, "`GSREF`{.envar}:
Speciation cross-reference
file"](ch08s05s04.html "8.5.4. GSREF: Speciation cross-reference file"),
all sources matching the cross-reference entry should use a combination
speciation profile. The combination speciation profiles file
(`GSPRO_COMBO`{.envar}) contains a combination of multiple speciation
profiles that combine multiple speciation profiles with a weight for
each profile to support a mixture of fuel profiles to specific counties,
when users have information to provide about market penetration of each
fuel and have speciation profiles for each of these fuels available. The
format of the `GSPRO_COMBO`{.envar} file is shown in [Table 8.42,
"Format for
`GSPRO_COMBO`{.envar}"](ch08s05s03.html#tbl_input_gspro_combo "Table 8.42. Format for GSPRO_COMBO").

::: {.table}
[]{#tbl_input_gspro_combo}

**Table 8.42. Format for `GSPRO_COMBO`{.envar}**

  Position   Name            Description
  ---------- --------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  A          POLID           Pollutant ID (Char 16) (required, should be MODE\_\_POLLUTANT for entries that are mode-pollutant combinations).
  B          FIPS            FIPS code for country, state and county (Char(5)) (required)
  C          PERIOD          Period number( e.g., month number)(integer) (required). Need to match SPCMAT\_PERIOD settting in script for data that are not period specific, use 1 as default.
  D          NPROF           Number of profiles in the combination (integer) (required). Values less than or equal to 0 will cause record to be skipped. The maximum number of profiles allowed is 10.
  E          PROF\[1\]       First speciation profile code (Char 5 ) (requied). Must match profile code in `GSPRO`{.envar} file for pollutant ID.
  F          FRAC\[1\]       Fraction of the first speciation profile code to be used in combination (Real) (required)
  G          PROF\[2\]       Second speciation profile code (Char 5 ) (requied). See note on PROF\[1\].
  H          FRAC\[2\]       Fraction of the second speciation profile code to be used in combination (Real)
  I,K,etc    PROF\[NPROF\]   Third through NPROF speciation profile codes (Char 5 ) (requied). See note on PROF\[1\]
  J,L,etc    FRAC\[NPROF\]   Fraction of the third through NPROF speciation profile code to be used in combination (Real)
:::

An example of a two-entry `GSPRO_COMBO`{.envar} file is as follows:

` EXH__VOC   001001   1   3   8170   0.50   8171   0.20   8172   0.30`{.envar}

` EVP__VOC   001001   1   3   8174   0.50   8175   0.20   8176   0.30`{.envar}

This file would do the following:

For county 01001 in period=1 (e.g., `SPCMAT_PERIOD`{.envar} set to 1 ),
Exhaust mode VOC would use 3 profiles ( 50% profile 8170, 20% profile
8171, and 30% profile 8172).

For county 01001 in period=1 (e.g., `SPCMAT_PERIOD`{.envar} set to 1 ),
Evaporative mode VOC would use 3 profiles ( 50% profile 8174, 20%
profile 8175, and 30% profile 8176).
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch08s05s02.html)                             [Up](ch08s05.html)                                     [Next](ch08s05s04.html)
  8.5.2. `GSPRO`{.envar}: Speciation profile file     [Home](index.html)     8.5.4. `GSREF`{.envar}: Speciation cross-reference file
  -------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------
:::
