::: {.navheader}
8.10. Other Support Files
:::

[Prev](ch08s09s03.html) 

Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files

 [Next](ch08s10s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_input_support}8.10. Other Support Files {#other-support-files .title style="clear: both"}
------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[8.10.1. `ARTOPNT`{.envar}: Area-to-point conversions
file](ch08s10.html#sect_input_artopnt)]{.section}

[[8.10.2. `COSTCY`{.envar}: Country, state, and county names and
data](ch08s10s02.html)]{.section}

[[8.10.3.
`GEOCODE_LEVEL[1-4]: Geographical Input Files`{.envar}](ch08s10s03.html)]{.section}

[[8.10.4. `INVTABLE`{.envar}: Inventory
table](ch08s10s04.html)]{.section}

[[8.10.5. `MACTDESC`{.envar}: MACT code
descriptions](ch08s10s05.html)]{.section}

[[8.10.6. `NAICSDESC`{.envar}: NAICS code
descriptions](ch08s10s06.html)]{.section}

[[8.10.7. `NHAPEXCLUDE`{.envar}: NonHAP VOC calculation
inclusions/exclusions file](ch08s10s07.html)]{.section}

[[8.10.8. `ORISDESC`{.envar}: ORIS
description](ch08s10s08.html)]{.section}

[[8.10.9. `RWC_COUNTY_TEMP`{.envar}: County-specific minimum temperature
for Residential Wood Combustion (RWC)
Equations](ch08s10s09.html)]{.section}

[[8.10.10. `SCCDESC`{.envar}: Source category code
descriptions](ch08s10s10.html)]{.section}

[[8.10.11. `SCCXREF`{.envar}: Reference SCC input
file](ch08s10s11.html)]{.section}

[[8.10.12. `SICDESC`{.envar}: SIC code
descriptions](ch08s10s12.html)]{.section}

[[8.10.13. `SOURCE_GROUPS`{.envar}: Source apportionment
groups](ch08s10s13.html)]{.section}

[[8.10.14. `VNAMMAP`{.envar}: Variable name mapping
file](ch08s10s14.html)]{.section}
:::

The directories where the other support files should be stored are
listed in [Table 8.11, "Other Support Input File
Locations"](ch08.html#tbl_input_other_files "Table 8.11. Other Support Input File Locations").
The table also lists the programs that use each input file.

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_input_artopnt}8.10.1. `ARTOPNT`{.envar}: Area-to-point conversions file {#artopnt-area-to-point-conversions-file .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

The `ARTOPNT`{.envar} file provides the point-source locations to assign
to stationary area and nonroad mobile sources. The file is separated
into sections. Each section starts with a header that contains the SCCs
that will receive the point-source locations and allocation factors
contained in that section. Within the section, the content and format
are similar to the EMS-HAP airport allocation factor files (e.g.,
`ap_af1.sas7bdat`{.filename}).

Each section of the file starts with the following packet:

/LOCATIONS/ \<SCC 1\> \<SCC 2\> \... \<SCC 9\>

for SCCs 1 through 9 that apply to the section. The SCCs must be full
10-digit SCCs separated by spaces. A maximum of 9 SCCs may appear in one
/LOCATIONS/ packet. If more than 9 SCCs are needed for a specific
section, then multiple /LOCATIONS/ packets can be included in subsequent
rows prior to the section to which they apply. In other words, two or
more lines in sequence may include the/LOCATIONS/ packet, and all of the
SCCs from both packets will be applied to the subsequent section of the
file.

Within each section delineated by the /LOCATIONS/ packets, the format is
shown in [Table 8.82, "Format for
`ARTOPNT`{.envar}"](ch08s10.html#tbl_input_artopnt "Table 8.82. Format for ARTOPNT").

::: {.table}
[]{#tbl_input_artopnt}

**Table 8.82. Format for `ARTOPNT`{.envar}**

  Position   Name        Type      Description
  ---------- ----------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1-6        COID        Int       Country, state, and county code (CSSYYY, where C = country, SS=state, and YYY=county) (required)
  8-9        STABBR      Char 2    Postal abbreviation for state (not used by SMOKE)
  11-32      COUNTY      Char 22   County name (not used by SMOKE)
  34-37      LOCID       Char 4    Airport ID (unused for now, required for ISCST3)
  39-61      NAME        Char 23   Airport name (if name contains spaces, commas, or semi-colons, then the entire name must be enclosed in double-quotes)
  63-84      CITY        Char 22   City name (not used by SMOKE)
  86-93      ARPT\_USE   Char 8    Airport purpose (not used by SMOKE)
  97-109     LON         Real      Longitude for the emissions (required)
  114-124    LAT         Real      Latitude for the emissions (required)
  126-139    ALLOC       Real      Allocation factor for this lat/lon, county, and SCC (required)
:::

The section ends with the start of another packet (indicated by a new
/LOCATIONS/ header line or with the end of the file.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  [Prev](ch08s09s03.html)      [Up](ch08.html)                                                   [Next](ch08s10s02.html)
  8.9.3. Point                [Home](index.html)     8.10.2. `COSTCY`{.envar}: Country, state, and county names and data
  -------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
:::
