# 10 SMOKE Output Files

## 10.1 Introduction

An output file is a file that is output from a SMOKE program and not
used as input to any other SMOKE programs. This include the model-ready
emissions files and various reports. Files that are used as input to
other SMOKE programs are considered intermediate files and are
documented in [Chapter 9, *SMOKE Intermediate
Files*](ch09.html "Chapter 9. SMOKE Intermediate Files").

In this chapter, the output files are organized under headings named for
the SMOKE programs that create the files; the files are listed
alphabetically within each program section. The order of the programs
within the chapter is also alphabetical. Please note that some file
types have multiple file names, one per source category. For example,
the multiplicative control report file name is `ACREP`,
`MCREP`, or `PCREP`, depending on whether the area,
mobile, or point source category is being processed by **Cntlmat**. In
these cases of multiple names for a single file type, the file
description is listed one time for all output files.

## 10.2 Cntlmat

The **Cntlmat** program is responsible for creating the growth and
control matrices. **Cntlmat** creates the following output files:

-   Multiplicative control report: [Section 10.2.1, "`ACREP`,
    `MCREP`, and
    `PCREP`"](ch10s02.html#sect_output_ampcrep "10.2.1. ACREP, MCREP, and PCREP")

-   Growth factors report: [Section 10.2.2, "`APROJREP`,
    `MPROJREP`, and
    `PPROJREP`"](ch10s02s02.html "10.2.2. APROJREP, MPROJREP, and PPROJREP")

-   Reactivity controls report: [Section 10.2.3, "`AREACREP`,
    `MREACREP`, and
    `PREACREP`"](ch10s02s03.html "10.2.3. AREACREP, MREACREP, and PREACREP")

-   Summary of controls report: [Section 10.2.4, "`ACSUMREP`,
    `MCSUMREP`, and
    `PCSUMREP`"](ch10s02s04.html "10.2.4. ACSUMREP, MCSUMREP, and PCSUMREP")

### 10.2.1. `ACREP`, `MCREP`, and `PCREP`

Type: ASCII - list-directed

Summary: This file contains the report for the multiplicative control
matrix. It includes the inventory pollutant emissions before and after
application of the multiplicative control matrix factors. For area and
mobile sources, the report resolution is by state and SCC code. For
point sources, the report is by state/county and plant code. The
individual factors applied (e.g., /ALLOWABLE/ and /CONTROL/ packet
factors) by source are provided in the `*CSUMREP` file described
in [Section 10.2.4, "`ACSUMREP`, `MCSUMREP`, and
`PCSUMREP`"](ch10s02s04.html "10.2.4. ACSUMREP, MCSUMREP, and PCSUMREP").

The file header and output format are similar to what is output by the
**Smkreport** program (see [Section 7.4, "Reports Created by
**Smkreport**"](ch07s04.html "7.4. Reports Created by Smkreport"). The
headers include information about:


-   The source category (area, mobile, or point sources) for the report

-   The base year or projected year of the inventory input file

-   Which control packets were applied

-   Whether the emissions in the report are based on ozone-season or
    annual total emissions

-   The inventory pollutants controlled by the packets

-   The units


The columns of the report include:


-   State ID (area and mobile); state/county ID (point)

-   SCC (area and mobile); plant (point)

-   Input emissions in tons/day for each controlled pollutant

-   Output emissions in tons/day for each controlled pollutant



### 10.2.2. `APROJREP`, `MPROJREP`, and `PPROJREP`


Type: ASCII - list-directed

Summary: This file contains the report for the /PROJECTION/ packet
applied during the **Cntlmat** run. It includes the growth matrix
factors applied to the inventory pollutant emissions. For all sources,
the resolution of the report is the source level. For area and mobile
sources, this means that the report resolution is by county code and
SCC. Mobile sources may additionally have link-detail information if
links are included in the inventory. For point sources, the resolution
includes the state/county code, plant ID, SCC, and other source
identifiers such as segment and point.

The file header and output format are somewhat similar to that output by
the **Smkreport** program (see [Section 7.4, "Reports Created by
**Smkreport**"](ch07s04.html "7.4. Reports Created by Smkreport")), but
less so than the `*CREP` file (see [Section 10.2.1,
"`ACREP`, `MCREP`, and
`PCREP`"](ch10s02.html#sect_output_ampcrep "10.2.1. ACREP, MCREP, and PCREP")).
The headers include information about:


-   The source category (area, mobile, or point sources) for the report

-   The base year of the inventory

-   The growth year for the packets being applied

-   The fact that all pollutants receive factors uniformly.


The columns of the report include:


-   State ID (area and mobile); state/county ID (point)

-   SCC (area and mobile); plant (point)

-   Growth factor

### 10.2.3. `AREACREP`, `MREACREP`, and `PREACREP`

Type: ASCII - list-directed

Summary: This file contains the report for the reactivity packet applied
during the **Cntlmat** run. It contains the reactivity packet contents
applied for any source in the inventory that gets a reactivity control.
For all sources, the resolution of the report is the source level, as
described for the `[A|M|P]PROJREP` files in [Section 10.2.2,
"`APROJREP`, `MPROJREP`, and
`PPROJREP`"](ch10s02s02.html "10.2.2. APROJREP, MPROJREP, and PPROJREP").

The file header and output format are the same as that output by the
**Smkreport** program (see [Section 7.4, "Reports Created by
**Smkreport**"](ch07s04.html "7.4. Reports Created by Smkreport")). The
headers in include information about:


-   The source category (area, mobile, or point sources) for the report

-   The base year of the inventory (or the projected year if applicable)

-   The projected year in the reactivity packet

-   The pollutant name (e.g., ROG) for which the reactivity controls
    were applied.

-   Whether the emissions in the report are based on average-day or
    annual total emissions.

-   The column names and units


The columns in the report include:


-   SMOKE source number

-   State/county code

-   Base-year SCC

-   Base-year emissions

-   New base-year emissions

-   Projection factor

-   Projected-year SCC

-   Projected-year speciation profile

-   Market penetration rate

### 10.2.4. `ACSUMREP`, `MCSUMREP`, and `PCSUMREP`

Type: ASCII - list-directed

Summary: This file contains all of the control (not growth) information
applied to each source, by source. The structure of this file is not
amenable for import into a spreadsheet, because all control information
applied to each source is listed underneath each source (not on the same
line). There is no header in this file.

## 10.3. **Elevpoint**

The **Elevpoint** program is responsible for selecting the elevated
sources. **Elevpoint** creates the following output files:


-   Elevated-point-source report: [Section 10.3.1,
    "`REPPELV`"](ch10s03.html#sect_output_reppelv "10.3.1. REPPELV")

-   Stack groups file: [Section 10.3.2,
    "`STACK_GROUPS`"](ch10s03s02.html "10.3.2. STACK_GROUPS")


### 10.3.1. `REPPELV`

Type: ASCII - list-directed

Summary: This ASCII output file contains the sources and criteria used
for selecting elevated and PinG sources in SMOKE. The following is a
description of columns/header in the report:


-   Source ID: SMOKE source ID, used by SMOKE only

-   Region: Country/state/county code (CSSYYY where C=country, SS=state,
    and YYY=county)

-   Plant: Facility ID (FF10), Plant ID (ORL)

-   Char 1: Unity ID (FF10), Point ID (ORL)

-   Char 2: Release Point ID (FF10), Stack ID (ORL)

-   Char 3: Process ID (FF10), Segment ID (ORL)

-   Char 4: For IDA inventory, SCC

-   Plt Name: Plant description from the input inventory

-   Elevstat: Elevated status - P = plume-in-grid, E = elevated

-   Group: SMOKE-assigned stack group number

-   Stk Ht: Stack height in meters

-   Stk Dm: Stack diameter in meters

-   Stk Tmp: Stack exit gas temperature in K

-   Stk Vel: Stack exit gas velocity in m/s

-   Stk Flw: Stack exit gas flow rate in m^3^/s

-   Rise: Briggs analytical solution plume rise in meters. This column
    is output only when RISE is specified as a selection criterion in
    the `PELVCONFIG` input file.

-   Group \<pol\>: Daily maximum emissions for source or source group
    for each pollutant (\<pol\>) in the `PELVCONFIG` file. These
    emissions are source emissions when a single source has its own
    group number. This column is output only when a pollutant is
    specified as a selection criterion in the `PELVCONFIG` input
    file.

-   Var 1: The first variable from the `PELVCONFIG` input file
    that was used in establishing the source as a PinG/elevated source

-   Type 1: If "[TOP]{.quote}" was used in the `PELVCONFIG`
    input file, this field says "[RANK]{.quote}"

-   Test 1: The test used to establish this source as a PinG/elevated
    source (e.g., \>, \<, \>=, =)

-   Val 1: If TOP was used, this value is the RANK. Otherwise, this
    value is the criterion used with Var 1 and Test 1 (e.g., if Var 1 is
    HT, Test 1 is "[\>]{.quote}", and if Val 1 is 50, then the criterion
    for selection is that the stack height be greater than 50.


Var 2 through Val 2 are the same as Var 1 through Val 1, except these
are defined only if an AND condition existed for the OR condition that
SMOKE used to establish the source as PinG or elevated. There will be as
many variables of these types as there are AND conditions in the
**PELVCONFIG** file.

### 10.3.2. `STACK_GROUPS`

Type: I/O API NetCDF - adapted gridded format

Summary: I/O API intermediate file and output file for CMAQ. See
[Section 9.3.2,
"`STACK_GROUPS`"](ch09s03s02.html "9.3.2. STACK_GROUPS") for
more information.

## 10.4. **Mrggrid**


The **Mrggrid** program is responsible for creating model-ready
emissions files. **Mrggrid** creates the following output file:


-   Model-ready emissions file: [Section 10.4.1,
    "`OUTFILE`"](ch10s04.html#sect_output_outfile "10.4.1. OUTFILE")


### 10.4.1. `OUTFILE` 

Type: I/O API NetCDF - adapted gridded format

Summary: Final, model-ready file created from two or more souce
categories. See [Section 10.6,
"**Smkmerge**"](ch10s06.html "10.6. Smkmerge") for file format.

## 10.5. **Smkinven**

The **Smkinven** program is responsible for importing the raw inventory
into SMOKE format. **Smkinven** creates the following output files:


-   Inventory import report: [Section 10.5.1,
    "`REPINVEN`"](ch10s05.html#sect_output_repinven "10.5.1. REPINVEN")

-   SCC file: [Section 10.5.2, "`ASCC`, `MSCC`,
    `PSCC`"](ch10s05s02.html "10.5.2. ASCC, MSCC, PSCC")



### 10.5.1. `REPINVEN`

Type: ASCII - list-directed

Summary: This report is made up of several different sections describing
different parts of the inventory import.

 {.orderedlist}
1.  This section lists, by CAS number, the emissions in tons/year; the
    number of inventory records; whether all, some, or none of the
    pollutants associated with that CAS number were kept; and the CAS
    number description.

    The columns in the report include:

    
    -   CAS number

    -   Whether all, some, or none of the pollutants were kept

    -   Number of inventory records read for the CAS number

    -   Emissions for the CAS number

    -   CAS number description
    

2.  This section includes emissions before and after application of
    disaggregation factors from the `INVTABLE`. Only the
    pollutants that have Keep = Y in `INVTABLE` will be included
    in this report. This report will be provided only if disaggregation
    and/or aggregation have occurred.

    The columns in the report include:

    
    -   "[Kept]{.quote}" unique CAS number

    -   Emissions total for the CAS number

    -   Factor used to adjust the CAS number to the pollutant

    -   Pollutant name

    -   Emissions total of the inventory pollutant

    -   Pollutant description

    -   CAS number description
    


The following sections are only for area-to-point assignments:

 {.orderedlist}
3.  This section lists SCCs that have area-to-point source factor file
    assignments but are not in the inventory.

    The columns in the report include:

    
    -   Assigned SCC codes not in the inventory
    

4.  For emissions going to point sources, this section lists the
    pollutant name, emissions total before and after the factors are
    applied, and the total number of FIPS codes affected, by SCC.

    The columns in the report include:

    
    -   SCC code

    -   Pollutant name

    -   Number of FIPS codes affected

    -   Emissions before factors are applied

    -   Emissions after factors are applied

    -   SCC description
    

5.  Same as the above section, except emissions are reported by state.

    The columns in the report include:

    
    -   State

    -   SCC code

    -   Pollutant name

    -   Number of FIPS codes affected

    -   Emissions before factors are applied

    -   Emissions after factors are applied

    -   SCC description
    

6.  This section lists, by SCC, the number of state and county FIPS
    codes getting assigned to point locations and the number not getting
    assigned.

    The columns in the report include:

    
    -   SCC code

    -   Number of FIPS assigned to point locations

    -   Number of FIPS not assigned to point locations

    -   SCC description
    
### 10.5.2. `ASCC`, `MSCC`, `PSCC`

Type: ASCII - list-directed

Summary: This file simply lists the SCC codes in the raw inventory.

## 10.6. **Smkmerge**

The **Smkmerge** program is responsible for creating model-ready
emissions files. **Smkmerge** creates the following output file:


-   Model-ready emissions file: [Section 10.6.1,
    "`[A|B|M|P|E]G[T][S][3D][_S][_L]`"](ch10s06.html#sect_output_egts "10.6.1. [A|B|M|P|E]G[T][S][3D][_S][_L]")

### 10.6.1. `[A|B|M|P|E]G[T][S][3D][_S][_L]`



Type: I/O API NetCDF - adapted gridded format

**Table 10.1. I/O API Header for
`[A|B|M|P|E]G[T][S][3D][_S][_L]`**

  I/O API Header variable   Meaning                         Set by\...
  ------------------------- ------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------
  NCOLS3D                   Number of columns in the grid   Output grid description in `GRIDDESC`
  NROWS3D                   Number of rows in the grid      Output grid description in `GRIDDESC`
  NVARS3D                   Number of output species        Chemical mechanism and speciation profiles in `GSPRO`


**Table 10.2. Variables in `[A|B|M|P|E]G[T][S][3D][_S][_L]`**

  Variable Name             Type   Units                  Description
  ------------------------- ------ ---------------------- -------------------------------
  Name of species 1         Real   \[moles\|tons\]/time   Emissions for species 1
  \...                      \...   \...                   \...
  Name of species NVARS3D   Real   \[moles\|tons\]/time   Emissions for species NVARS3D


## 10.7. **Tmpbeis3**


The **Tmpbeis3** program is responsible for creating gridded, hourly
biogenic emissions. **Tmpbeis3** creates the following output file:


-   Model-ready biogenic emissions: [Section 10.7.1, "`B3GTS_L`
    and
    `B3GTS_S`"](ch10s07.html#sect_output_b3gts "10.7.1. B3GTS_L and B3GTS_S")


### 10.7.1. `B3GTS_L` and `B3GTS_S` 

Type: I/O API NetCDF - adapted gridded format


**Table 10.3. I/O API Header for `B3GTS_L` and
`B3GTS_S`**

  I/O API Header variable   Meaning                         Set by\...
  ------------------------- ------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------
  NCOLS3D                   Number of columns in the grid   Output grid description in `GRIDDESC`
  NROWS3D                   Number of rows in the grid      Output grid description in `GRIDDESC`
  NVARS3D                   Number of output species        Chemical mechanism and speciation profiles in `GSPRO`


**Table 10.4. Variables in `B3GTS_L` and `B3GTS_S`**

  Variable Name             Type   Units                Description
  ------------------------- ------ -------------------- -------------------------------
  Name of species 1         Real   \[moles\|tons\]/hr   Emissions for species 1
  \...                      \...   \...                 \...
  Name of species NVARS3D   Real   \[moles\|tons\]/hr   Emissions for species NVARS3D

## 10.8. **Tmpbio**

The **Tmpbio** program is responsible for creating gridded, hourly
biogenic emissions. **Tmpbio** creates the following output file:


-   Model-ready biogenic emissions: [Section 10.8.1, "`BGTS_L`
    and
    `BGTS_S`"](ch10s08.html#sect_output_bgts "10.8.1. BGTS_L and BGTS_S")



###  10.8.1. `BGTS_L` and `BGTS_S`

Type: I/O API NetCDF - adapted gridded format

The `BGTS_L` and `BGTS_S` files have the same format as
the `B3GTS_L` and `B3GTS_S` files, respectively. See
[Section 10.7.1, "`B3GTS_L` and
`B3GTS_S`"](ch10s07.html#sect_output_b3gts "10.7.1. B3GTS_L and B3GTS_S")
for format information.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

[前一章](ch09.md)<<<<<[返回](README.md)>>>>>[下一章](ch11.md)


