::: {.navheader}
10.3. **Elevpoint**
:::

[Prev](ch10s02s04.html) 

Chapter 10. SMOKE Output Files

 [Next](ch10s03s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_output_elevpoint}10.3. **Elevpoint** {#elevpoint .title style="clear: both"}
---------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[10.3.1.
`REPPELV`{.envar}](ch10s03.html#sect_output_reppelv)]{.section}

[[10.3.2. `STACK_GROUPS`{.envar}](ch10s03s02.html)]{.section}
:::

The **Elevpoint** program is responsible for selecting the elevated
sources. **Elevpoint** creates the following output files:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Elevated-point-source report: [Section 10.3.1,
    "`REPPELV`{.envar}"](ch10s03.html#sect_output_reppelv "10.3.1. REPPELV")

-   Stack groups file: [Section 10.3.2,
    "`STACK_GROUPS`{.envar}"](ch10s03s02.html "10.3.2. STACK_GROUPS")
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

### []{#sect_output_reppelv}10.3.1. `REPPELV`{.envar} {#reppelv .title}

</div>

</div>
:::

Type: ASCII - list-directed

Summary: This ASCII output file contains the sources and criteria used
for selecting elevated and PinG sources in SMOKE. The following is a
description of columns/header in the report:

::: {.itemizedlist}
-   Source ID: SMOKE source ID, used by SMOKE only

-   Region: Country/state/county code (CSSYYY where C=country, SS=state,
    and YYY=county)

-   Plant: Facility ID (FF10), Plant ID (ORL)

-   Char 1: Unity ID (FF10), Point ID (ORL)

-   Char 2: Release Point ID (FF10), Stack ID (ORL)

-   Char 3: Process ID (FF10), Segment ID (ORL)

-   Char 4: For IDA inventory, SCC

-   Plt Name: Plant description from the input inventory

-   Elevstat: Elevated status - P = plume-in-grid, E = elevated

-   Group: SMOKE-assigned stack group number

-   Stk Ht: Stack height in meters

-   Stk Dm: Stack diameter in meters

-   Stk Tmp: Stack exit gas temperature in K

-   Stk Vel: Stack exit gas velocity in m/s

-   Stk Flw: Stack exit gas flow rate in m^3^/s

-   Rise: Briggs analytical solution plume rise in meters. This column
    is output only when RISE is specified as a selection criterion in
    the `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} input file.

-   Group \<pol\>: Daily maximum emissions for source or source group
    for each pollutant (\<pol\>) in the `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} file. These
    emissions are source emissions when a single source has its own
    group number. This column is output only when a pollutant is
    specified as a selection criterion in the `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} input
    file.

-   Var 1: The first variable from the `PELVCONFIG`{.envar} input file
    that was used in establishing the source as a PinG/elevated source

-   Type 1: If "[TOP]{.quote}" was used in the `PELVCONFIG`{.envar}
    input file, this field says "[RANK]{.quote}"

-   Test 1: The test used to establish this source as a PinG/elevated
    source (e.g., \>, \<, \>=, =)

-   Val 1: If TOP was used, this value is the RANK. Otherwise, this
    value is the criterion used with Var 1 and Test 1 (e.g., if Var 1 is
    HT, Test 1 is "[\>]{.quote}", and if Val 1 is 50, then the criterion
    for selection is that the stack height be greater than 50.
:::

Var 2 through Val 2 are the same as Var 1 through Val 1, except these
are defined only if an AND condition existed for the OR condition that
SMOKE used to establish the source as PinG or elevated. There will be as
many variables of these types as there are AND conditions in the
**PELVCONFIG** file.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------
  [Prev](ch10s02s04.html)                                                     [Up](ch10.html)              [Next](ch10s03s02.html)
  10.2.4. `ACSUMREP`{.envar}, `MCSUMREP`{.envar}, and `PCSUMREP`{.envar}     [Home](index.html)     10.3.2. `STACK_GROUPS`{.envar}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------------
:::
