::: {.navheader}
Chapter 10. SMOKE Output Files
:::

[Prev](ch09s15.html) 

 

 [Next](ch10s02.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.chapter lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#ch_output_files}Chapter 10. SMOKE Output Files {#chapter-10.-smoke-output-files .title}
--------------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.toc}
[[10.1. Introduction](ch10.html#sect_output_introduction)]{.section}

[[10.2. **Cntlmat**](ch10s02.html)]{.section}

[[10.3. **Elevpoint**](ch10s03.html)]{.section}

[[10.4. **Mrggrid**](ch10s04.html)]{.section}

[[10.5. **Smkinven**](ch10s05.html)]{.section}

[[10.6. **Smkmerge**](ch10s06.html)]{.section}

[[10.7. **Tmpbeis3**](ch10s07.html)]{.section}

[[10.8. **Tmpbio**](ch10s08.html)]{.section}
:::

::: {.section lang="en"}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#sect_output_introduction}10.1. Introduction {#introduction .title style="clear: both"}
-----------------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

An output file is a file that is output from a SMOKE program and not
used as input to any other SMOKE programs. This include the model-ready
emissions files and various reports. Files that are used as input to
other SMOKE programs are considered intermediate files and are
documented in [Chapter 9, *SMOKE Intermediate
Files*](ch09.html "Chapter 9. SMOKE Intermediate Files").

In this chapter, the output files are organized under headings named for
the SMOKE programs that create the files; the files are listed
alphabetically within each program section. The order of the programs
within the chapter is also alphabetical. Please note that some file
types have multiple file names, one per source category. For example,
the multiplicative control report file name is `ACREP`{.envar},
`MCREP`{.envar}, or `PCREP`{.envar}, depending on whether the area,
mobile, or point source category is being processed by **Cntlmat**. In
these cases of multiple names for a single file type, the file
description is listed one time for all output files.
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ----------------------- -------------------- -----------------------
  [Prev](ch09s15.html)                            [Next](ch10s02.html)
  9.15. **Tmpbeis3**       [Home](index.html)        10.2. **Cntlmat**
  ----------------------- -------------------- -----------------------
:::
