::: {.navheader}
Appendix A. Glossary
:::

[Prev](ch12s04.html) 

 

 [Next](apa.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.glossary}
::: {.titlepage}
<div>

<div>

[]{#app_glossary}Appendix A. Glossary {#appendix-a.-glossary .title}
-------------------------------------

</div>

</div>
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### A {#a .title}

Air quality model

:   A model that predicts ambient air quality that accounts for impacts
    of meteorology, manmade emissions sources, and biogenic emissions
    sources. It simulates physical components such as advection,
    dispersion, clouds, dry and wet precipitation, air chemistry,
    particulate formation, to provide ambient air quality estimates of a
    variety of pollutants (such as ozone) and other chemical
    constituents.

Anthropogenic sources

:   Manmade sources of emissions. All inventory source categories
    besides biogenic sources are considered to be anthropogenic sources.

[]{#glossary_area_source}Area source

:   An anthropogenic source category that is represented as a 2-d
    source, typically a county. In SMOKE, the term area source more
    specifically refers to a collection of source categories types that
    are not point sources and are not on-road mobile sources. SMOKE area
    sources are defined by country, state, and county codes and by
    source category codes (SCCs). Area sources are also referred to as
    stationary area sources and, in SMOKE, include nonroad mobile
    sources.
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### B {#b .title}

Base year

:   Year for which an air quality modeling episode will be evaluated for
    model performance. Air quality modeling typically involves modeling
    a base year and comparing the model run to observational data. Once
    the meteorology and emissions data in the base year have been
    improved enough for adequate model performance, the emissions are
    grown to a future year and the model is run in the future with and
    without a control strategy.

[]{#glossary_biogenic_source}Biogenic source

:   A natural source, or one that is not manmade. In SMOKE, biogenic
    sources include VOC emissions from vegetation and nitrous oxide
    emissions from soil. Volcanoes and other geothermal emissions, water
    emissions, and other biogenic sources are not included in SMOKE
    biogenic emissions components.
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### C {#c .title}

Chemical mechanism

:   A set of chemical species and their interactions used to represent
    air chemistry (e.g., carbon bond 6 \[CB6\], Statewide Air Pollution
    Research Center \[SAPRC\]).

[]{#glossary_chemical_speciation}Chemical speciation

:   Convert the inventory pollutant data to the chemical species needed
    by the air quality model (e.g., VOC gets split to PAR, OLE, XYL,
    TOL, ISOP, and more).

Cross-reference file

:   A dataset used for matching sources in the emissions inventory with
    profile data based on the source characteristics. Typically there
    can be thousands of records in a cross-reference file and tens or
    hundreds of thousands of records in an emissions inventory. The
    cross-reference file facilitates assigning conversion factors for
    emissions processing to records in the emissions inventory.
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### E {#e .title}

Elevated source

:   A point source in which emissions are higher than the first model
    layer because of plume rise.

Emission inventory

:   An emission inventory is an accounting of the amount of air
    pollutants discharged into the atmosphere. It is generally
    characterized by the following factors:

    ::: {.itemizedlist}
    -   the chemical or physical identity of the pollutants included,
    -   the geographic area covered,
    -   the institutional entities covered,
    -   the time period over which emissions are estimated, and
    -   the types of activities that cause emissions.
    :::

    Emission inventories are developed for a variety of purposes.
    Inventories of natural and anthropogenic emissions are used by
    scientists as inputs to air quality models, by policy makers to
    develop strategies and policies or track progress of standards, and
    by facilities and regulatory agencies to establish compliance
    records with allowable emission rates. A well constructed inventory
    should include enough documentation and other data to allow readers
    to understand the underlying assumptions and to reconstruct the
    calculations for each of the estimates included.

Emissions processing

:   Converting the resolution of emissions inventories (e.g. area,
    biogenic, mobile, and point sources) to the resolution needed by an
    air quality model (e.g., hourly, grid-cell, data of model species).
    It may also include growing data from one year to another year and
    applying emissions controls on the inventory. This process requires
    a large number of supplementary data files include gridding
    surrogates, cross-reference files, and factor profiles for chemical
    speciation and temporal allocation. It includes combining all source
    categories and ensuring that the emissions are in the format needed
    by a specific air quality model. Emissions processing typically
    includes quality assurance to increase user confidence that the data
    were converted as intended.

[]{#glossary_environment_variable}Environment variable

:   Environment variables are how SMOKE communicates with its operating
    environment. There are several different uses for environment
    variables including assigning file names, setting options, and
    setting operating parameters.

    An environment variable in the UNIX environment C-shell is defined
    using the **setenv** command. For example, to define the
    `FILENAME`{.envar} environment variable to the file
    `testfile.txt`{.filename} in the `/home/user/`{.filename} directory,
    the following command is used:

    **`setenv FILENAME` `/home/user/testfile.txt`{.filename}**
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### F {#f .title}

Fuel month

:   The concept of a fuel month is used to indicate when a particular
    set of fuel properties should be used in a MOVES simulation. The
    fuel month reduces the computational time of MOVES by using a single
    month to represent a set of months. To determine the fuel month and
    which months it is similar to, the user should review the
    State-provided fuel supply data in the MOVES database for each
    representative county. If the fuel supply data change thoughout the
    year, then roup the months by fuel parameters. For example, if the
    grams/mile exhaust emission rates in January are identical to
    February\'s rates for a given representative county, then use a
    single fuel month to represent January and Febuary. (Only one of the
    months needs to be modeled throuh MOVES)

Future year

:   A year after the base year.
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### G {#g .title}

Grid

:   See [Model grid](go01.html#glossary_model_grid).

Grid projection

:   See [Map projection](go01.html#glossary_map_projection).

Gridding

:   See [Spatial allocation](go01.html#glossary_spatial_allocation).

[]{#glossary_gridding_surrogate}Gridding surrogate

:   A dataset developed from data at a finer resolution than the
    emissions, used to spatially allocate the emissions to the grid
    cells (e.g., population, housing, agricultural regions).
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### I {#i .title}

Inventory pollutant

:   A compound or group of compounds emitted into the atmosphere by
    anthropogenic and biogenic sources defined for record-keeping and
    regulatory purposes (e.g. carbon monoxide \[CO\], nitrogen oxides
    \[NO~x~\], volatile organic compounds \[VOC\], particulate matter 10
    microns or less \[PM~10~\]).
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### L {#l .title}

Lambert conformal

:   A type of map projection.

Latitude/longitude (lat/lon)

:   A spherical reference system used to measure locations on the
    Earth's surface. Latitude and longitude are angles measured from the
    Earth's center to locations on the Earth's surface. Latitude
    measures angles in a north-south direction. Longitude measures
    angles in the east-west direction. In SMOKE, lat/lon refers to a map
    projection.

Layer

:   See [Model layers](go01.html#glossary_model_layers).

Logical file names

:   Environment variables that programs use to access files are called
    logical file names. In the [Environment
    variable](go01.html#glossary_environment_variable),
    `FILENAME`{.envar} is the logical file name for the physical file
    `/home/user/testfile.txt`{.filename}. The I/O API is based on
    logical file names, and since SMOKE uses the I/O API for accessing
    all of its files, it too uses logical file names. The benefit of
    logical file names is that the programs do not require that the
    physical files always have the same name. Instead, the logical file
    names can be defined each time a program is run to use whatever
    physical file names the user would like. In [Chapter 8, *SMOKE Input
    Files*](ch08.html "Chapter 8. SMOKE Input Files"), [Chapter 9,
    *SMOKE Intermediate
    Files*](ch09.html "Chapter 9. SMOKE Intermediate Files"), and
    [Chapter 10, *SMOKE Output
    Files*](ch10.html "Chapter 10. SMOKE Output Files"), the logical
    file names are used to reference the files, their associations with
    programs, and their formats.

Low-level point source

:   A point source in the first model layer. A source that is not
    elevated.
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### M {#m .title}

[]{#glossary_map_projection}Map projection

:   A mathematical model that transforms the locations of features on
    the Earth's surface to locations on a two-dimensional surface.
    Because the Earth is three-dimensional, some method must be used to
    depict a map in two dimensions. Some projections preserve shape;
    others preserve accuracy of area, distance, or direction. Map
    projections project the Earth's surface onto a flat plane. However,
    any such representation distorts some parameter of the Earth's
    surface be it distance, area, shape, or direction.

Merging

:   In SMOKE, merging can refer to two steps. One, it can refer to
    combining the SMOKE processes for a single source category, such as
    combining the gridding information, the inventory, the temporal
    allocation, and the chemical speciation information to create
    model-ready emissions. Two, it can refer to combining all source
    categories together into a single model-ready file.

Meteorology data

:   Simulated weather data required by SMOKE for biogenic sources, some
    mobile source processing, and some point source processing.

[]{#glossary_mobile_source}Mobile source

:   In the most general sense, a mobile source is simply a
    non-stationary source such as an on road vehicle, a construction
    vehicle, or a lawn mower. In SMOKE, the term mobile source more
    specifically refers to on-road vehicles. SMOKE mobile sources are
    defined by country, state, and county codes, by source category
    codes (SCCs) that include a road class code and a vehicle type code,
    and optionally by a link identification code. For SMOKE, mobile
    sources include only on-road mobile sources and NOT nonroad sources
    (which are treated as area sources).

[]{#glossary_model_domain}Model domain

:   The grid on which a model will be run.

[]{#glossary_model_grid}Model grid

:   A 2-d grid based on a map projection, defined by starting
    coordinates, number of grid cells in each direction, and the
    physical size of the grid cells.

[]{#glossary_model_layers}Model layers

:   Vertical spatial divisions defined by an air quality model because
    the atmosphere has varied characteristics in the vertical direction.

[]{#glossary_model_species}Model species

:   A compound or group of compounds defined as part of the estimation
    of air chemistry in an air quality model (e.g., CO, nitrogen oxide
    \[NO\], nitrogen dioxide \[NO~2~\], paraffins \[PAR\], elemental
    carbon, coarse \[ECC\]). Model species can be an actual chemical
    compound, ion, or group of compounds. Air quality models typically
    input emissions data for a subset of model species from a larger
    number of species in a full chemical mechanism.
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### N {#n .title}

Nonroad mobile sources

:   See [Area source](go01.html#glossary_area_source).
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### O {#o .title}

On-road mobile source

:   See [Mobile source](go01.html#glossary_mobile_source).
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### P {#p .title}

Past year

:   A year prior to a base year.

Plume rise

:   The rising of the exhaust from point sources due to the velocity and
    temperature of the exhaust gases.

Plume-in-grid (PinG)

:   A special treatment of elevated sources by which the plume rise is
    modeled with extra detail by the air quality model. The acronym for
    plume-in-grid is PinG or sometimes PIG.

[]{#glossary_point_source}Point source

:   A point source is an emissions source that can be represented by a
    point in space, relative to the modeling domain. In SMOKE, a point
    source is defined by a country, state, and county code, a plant
    identification code, 1 to 5 additional user-defined attributed (such
    as stack code, process codes, and a source category code \[SCC\]).
    Point sources have other required attributes such as stack
    parameters.

Polar stereographic

:   A type of map projection.

Profile data

:   Factors used for disaggregating emissions data as is done during
    chemical speciation or temporal allocation.

Projection (grid)

:   See [Map projection](go01.html#glossary_map_projection).

Projection (temporal)

:   Estimating past-year or future-year emissions from a base-year value
    and other factors.
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### R {#r .title}

Representative County

:   Representative county is used to represent a set of counties that
    have the a constant set of fuel parameters (distribution of fuels
    over the year), fleet age distritution, inspection/maintenance (I/M)
    programs, similar community characteristics (e.g. urban vs rural)
    and similar meteorological conditions (e.g. temperature and relative
    humidity). Variables that can vary within the counties represented
    by a representative county include vehicle miles traveled (VMT),
    source type vehicle population, roadway speed and grid cell
    temperatures. By specifying a representative county the user is able
    to reduce the computational time of MOVES by using a single county
    to represent a set of counties.
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### S {#s .title}

Source category

:   A general classification of emission sources for both emission
    inventory development and emissions modeling. The major source
    categories in SMOKE are area, biogenic, mobile, and point. Other
    source categories that are sometimes treated separately are offshore
    point sources, nonroad area sources, and Continuous Emissions
    Monitoring (CEM) sources.

    See Also [Area source](go01.html#glossary_area_source), [Biogenic
    source](go01.html#glossary_biogenic_source), [Mobile
    source](go01.html#glossary_mobile_source), [Point
    source](go01.html#glossary_point_source).

Source classification code (SCC)

:   A code used in emission inventories to label emission sources as
    being part of a specific industrial, chemical, or natural processes
    of generating emissions.

Sparse Matrix Operator Kernel Emissions (SMOKE)

:   A emissions data modeling system that prepares emissions data for
    use in air quality models. It converts the resolution of area,
    biogenic, mobile, and point source inventories into the hourly,
    gridded, model-species resolution needed by air quality models.

[]{#glossary_spatial_allocation}Spatial allocation

:   Convert the source spatial extent to the grid cell resolution needed
    by the air quality model. For area sources, this process requires
    gridding surrogate data. For mobile link sources (line sources),
    this requires determining the cells intersected by the link and the
    fractions of the link in each cell. For point sources, this requires
    determining in which cell the point source falls.

Spatial surrogate

:   See [Gridding surrogate](go01.html#glossary_gridding_surrogate).

Speciation

:   See [Chemical speciation](go01.html#glossary_chemical_speciation).

Species

:   See [Model species](go01.html#glossary_model_species).

Stack parameters

:   Attributes of point sources including stack height, stack diameter
    at the top (the point where exit gases flow from the stack), exit
    gas temperature at the top, exit gas velocity at the top, and exit
    gas flow at the top.
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### T {#t .title}

[]{#glossary_temporal_allocation}Temporal allocation

:   Convert the inventory temporal resolution to the hourly temporal
    resolution needed by the air quality model.

[]{#glossary_time_zone}Time zone

:   A region on the Earth assigned a specific zone relative to Greenwich
    Mean Time, defined as time zone 0.
:::

::: {.glossdiv}
### U {#u .title}

[]{#glossary_universal_transverse_mercator}Universal Transverse Mercator

:   Military grid projection based on the transverse Mercator
    projection, applied to maps of the Earth's surface extending from
    the Equator to 84 degrees north and 80 degress south latitudes.

UNIX

:   A group of operating systems that conform to POSIX standards.
    Commonly used systems include Linux, SGI IRIX, Solaris (SunOS), and
    Mac OS X.

UTM zone

:   See [Universal Transverse
    Mercator](go01.html#glossary_universal_transverse_mercator).
:::
:::

::: {.navfooter}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------
  [Prev](ch12s04.html)                                               [Next](apa.html)
  12.4. Compiling SMOKE for UNIX     [Home](index.html)     Appendix B. Abbreviations
  --------------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------
:::
